# Laying the Groundwork - Building a Strong Foundation in Legal Expertise and Experience

Laying the Groundwork - Building a Strong Foundation in Legal Expertise and Experience": "Uh, welcome to TC and W D C members. My name is Sarah Hennings, director of Community with Tech tc. Um, our panel today is gonna be focusing on building a strong foundation in legal expertise and experience, and we have a wonderful set of speakers for you here today. I'm very pleased to welcome Shelly Hall, general Counsel at Net Brain Technologies, and Amanda Bradley, general Counsel at Bolt and our moderator today, someone you're most likely very familiar with and one of our many, uh, hosts from Law Trades, Matt Margolis, head of Community and Legal, and a huge thank you to our sponsor for today's Virtual Panel Law Trades making this event possible. As usual, if you have any questions for our panelists today, you are more than welcome to submit those via the q and a feature here on Zoom. We've also taken all of your questions that you have shared with us prior to this event and have incorporated those into our discussion. And, uh, just a friendly reminder that today is Chatham House Rules. They do apply with regard to the information being shared, and we're really looking forward to this session today. And with that, Matt, I'll turn things over to you. Thanks for being everyone. Appreciate. Thank you so much. Hey, everybody. Uh, again, yeah. I'm Matt Margolis and the head of Legal and Community at Law Trades. If you know what Law Trades is, we're a legal tech company that provides on demand flexible legal talent, attorneys, paralegals, legal operations professionals, what have you, uh, to busy in-house departments and law firms. I, I have a bit of imposter syndrome because both of our speakers today have incredible experience, um, and incredible insight. Just in quickly on who I am, I am currently our sole attorney at Law Trades. Prior to that, I was the sole attorney at a private equity fund down in Miami. And before that I was an A G C at the government. Um, so I have a little bit of insight, but again, not as good of insight as Amanda and Shelley. So, Amanda, I'm gonna, I'm gonna pass it over to you. Yeah, Yeah. That's quite the false advertising in my case, but I appreciate it. Um, I'm Amanda Bradley. I'm the GC of Bolt. Um, prior to that, I was the head of legal at Shift. Um, uh, quickly bounced back to being head of corporate at Spire. Um, and, uh, I'm now at Bolt based in San Francisco. Thank you. And Shelley. Hey everyone. False advertising all around, but hopefully we can somehow live up to it. I am the General counsel at Net Brandand Technologies, which is a B two B software company, uh, focusing on automating network operations. I've been here for about two and a half years, and before that I was the GC at K two software, another B two B software company. And, uh, before that bounced around a little. So looking forward to talking about the journey. Awesome. Awesome. So even before we start, I'd love to hear from both of you. How would you describe the role of gc? Yes, it's, it's the attorney. It's the attorney at these companies, but what does that really mean? And, um, Shelly, if you wanna start Sure. You know, the GC is an executive. You, you know, you are the lawyer of the company, but you are also part of the executive team, and that's an important distinction, which I think a lot of people come into the role and don't realize it. I didn't quite realize it in my first, my first try, but you do need to know that you are a leader for the company. That's what you are. Absolutely. And Amanda, Yeah, likewise. I mean, it, it sounds like it means, uh, head lawyer, but, uh, I find that very little of what I do is actually legal advice. Um, so it's, it's much more than that. It's, you know, being a, a cross-functional kind of connective tissue between different parts of the organization, um, jumping in to lead things, um, because you want the company to be a success and not be necessarily because, um, it is in your legal lane. Um, so it's, it's much broader. Absolutely. And let me ask you guys this, I, it's my, my understanding, at least from my experience, it's really a, a generalist role. It, it's not necessarily, you may be really good in ip, really good in employment, but in that kind of role as a G C C L O, it's, it's a much broader, uh, bench. And is, is that fair to say, Amanda? Sorry, I'm not, I am no longer an m and a lawyer. Um, so yeah, it's a, it is definitely a generalist role and generalist even beyond, you know, just legal topics. I mean, I know more about, you know, um, HR than I ever thought I would, for example. So That's fair. Same here. And then Shelley, Absolutely. You are not only a generalist, but as we said before, you are, I, I think Amanda said it well, the connective tissue. I sometimes think of it as you're the thread that's holding the company together. So in all those different departments, because you see them all in your role and you need to be able to address each of them and spot the issues across the company in ways that your peers might not be able to see them. Agreed. Agreed. And we actually, we received this question be ahead of time, and it's, it's in that same vein. This is really a generalist role, but sometimes it has, its been, sometimes it has its traps and there are certain areas I, I think I agree that you definitely need to gain some knowledge and experience. Um, and I'd love to hear your insight on that. I, I'd say personally, I, I was not an employment attorney, um, by trade. And I certainly found it helpful to leverage outside counsel to learn, uh, employment related well, as well as my HR department. Thank, bless my HR department for, for getting me up to speed on certain things as well. But employment I cannot stress enough. And Amanda, Yeah, the other, the other area I think everyone within the organization kind of expects you to be the expert on that maybe people don't have background in would be corporate governance, um, employee equity and cap tables. Um, and so I think, you know, getting smart, there are lots of ways to get smart on those things, but I think those are the main areas where like, yes, you can lean on outside counsel, but I think that's the, the core area where people might not have background but like kind of need to get smart on, um, in order to do this role. Agreed. Bless Carta, by the way. Yes, Echo that. You're never going to know everything and you're never going to feel like you know enough. But there are areas where, like Amanda said, that you, you might be expected to know where you don't. I can personally say my first GC role, the first day I was told I was gonna be managing the cap table. I smiled, I nodded, I went home and cried because I had never looked at a cap table before. Um, so in that sense, don't be Shelly, but then be Shelly. And what I did next, which was I picked myself up off the couch, I decided, you can do this. You've done things before that you didn't know how to do. I called the friends who were lawyers, had them give me crash courses, found people within the company who wouldn't tell me I was stupid and had them help me figure it out. And that's just what you do as a general counsel. You, you figure it out. Yeah. Same if, if, if I can build a C C P A program based on not knowing anything about privacy, anybody on this call can do anything. I, I have a similar experience with healthcare. I had no experience in health. I was a litigator. I had no experience in healthcare. And I remember sitting down and, and having like, Hey, you need to learn all this as soon as possible. And leveraging outside counsel was such a great asset. 'cause they were, they wanted to build a relationship with me as well because hey, it's the, it's the lawyer at the company crash course cra. And I know, I think Amanda, we talked about this previously, there are firms that even do crash courses. Hmm. Yeah. So, um, two of my companies, um, you know, I was lucky enough to get lucky or unlucky to uh, find myself in the SPAC wave twice. And so two of my companies went public. And in both cases, you know, there are law firms that will, um, do you know, public company GC crash course, um, and you know, other topics for sure. Um, you know, 'cause they want your business and it's free school. So take advantage of that. That's true. So I'll ask everyone this. I think we all have a bit of a unique background going in-house and I'd love to hear how your background led you, uh, to specifically to a GC C L O spot. Um, and Shelly, do you wanna go first? Sure. I was a litigator in private practice. I was a partner in a boutique firm and went into my favorite client because they thought they'd pay less with me being on board than paying the law firm rates. And I think they were right. Um, but from then, I think once you're in house, you know, things start falling on your desk and you start looking at the business as a whole and wanting to see where everything ties together. And if you're finding yourself in that situation where you have more curiosity about the business, then GC is probably the right path for you because that is what a general counsel is. It's someone who has to show judgment across the business and, and across everything. So as a litigator, I was a little nervous because as we've, I've made clear, never seen things like cap tables, but you've gotta think about what your unique skills, uh, are Based on your background. A litigator has seen contracts that have completely fallen apart. So I should know how to work on one. You have seen deals collapse, so you can probably work your way through some m and a, you know how to spot issues because you've had to be strategic on putting together a case and you know how to get people to the table 'cause you've had to negotiate. So think about how those aspects of your background can fit into solving problems that the c e O has. And you can take any background and come up with ways to, to frame it for yourself. Absolutely. And Amanda, Yeah, I, you know, figure, I think the, the hardest step really is to make your way from private practice to in-house. And you know, I figured out early on that, you know, I wanted to stick around and be able to build something rather than just hop in for a deal and hop out when you're in private practice. So that's what brought me in-house. And then once in-house I started to realize like, I actually want the whole thing to work. I more so than I want to be, you know, the expert in this one particular area. And so that's how I kind of pointed more in the, in the GC direction. And then I think it's about, you know, like Shelly said, following your curiosity and grabbing opportunities. Opportunities. Yep. Absolutely. Uh, especially the opportunities I, when I was first, um, when I was an A G C I recall being and that, that's always the thing. Like you get these like really like stretch projects. It's stretching you 'cause you're like, this might not be my element. Um, and I remember getting that for a procurement and sourcing related issue and I just said, yes. I said, yes, I'm gonna do those things. And, and, and gaining that expertise, one optically looked great 'cause it's, oh, he, he's willing to do these things. He's willing to really, um, jump onto these projects that, uh, are foreign to us, that that, that are high priority. But also for all of us, it, it gained skills gained. I gained these valuable skills that maybe someone else in the department didn't have. And that was very, to that point, it was very helpful. It definitely put me in a better position. And then, uh, my background, like Shelley, I was a litigator and I, I I think you were probably told the same thing. I think we all, and I, Amanda, I think you were told this also as an m and a attorney, which is funny. I wanna get to the bottom of this. Never Gonna happen. Yeah. I wanna get to the bottom of this. Who's giving this advice out? It's like one recruiter that's just like going around. But, um, I was told as a litigator I was never gonna go in-house. Um, because that's not what they hire. They, or if you're gonna go in-house, it's a very specialized role. And just like Shelly, I finagled my way in-house by saying the same thing. I'm an issue spotter. I'm one, it's a risk management, um, kind. I'm, I'm gonna manage all this risk. You're much money on x Z. But also I've litigated over to these contractual issues, I've litigated over these issues and, and if I haven't, I know I know where it's going to lead. And it worked. And I, it did allow me to go in-house. And that perspective was very helpful as a head of legal general counsel because it's really quarterbacking the department. I'm an issue spotter, I'm gonna make it work. Um, so that's, that's my advice there. That was long-winded. Again, we're gonna find this recruiter. We get there. Well, and on the flip side, I was told the same thing as an m and a lawyer, again by a recruiter. So maybe there's some, um, misaligned there. Um, but that, you know, m and a lawyers struggle to find their way to that role. And I think the way, you know, issue spotting is a, is a great way to frame it, uh, with, if you have a litigation background, I think the way I framed it having in a corporate background is I'm a, I like to make deals and solve problems. Right, exactly. So you get in the organization and something's not working and somebody wants to get something done, like you're gonna add more value finding the path forward than, than letting people know, well, you know, section 2 35 of whatever says this. Um, and so the legal skills are relevant, but it's kind of like, what's, what's it all directed to? Absolutely. Um, well, I'll ask you this. Since we all started and with different practice areas and, and not, we weren't, I don't think we were, none of us were generalists. But how do you gain confidence, um, in areas that you didn't practice at that that wasn't, that wasn't your expertise. And Shelly, if you wanna start, You have to be comfortable being uncomfortable. That is the general counsel's role. You are, you're never gonna know everything. You're never gonna be the expert, but they're hiring you for your judgment. Mm-hmm. We're all good lawyers. Everyone on this session has to be a really good lawyer. But being a general counsel is showing good judgment across those areas. So as you do these things, you will gain more confidence when you, um, have taken on stretch projects. And, and I think a good way to build confidence in advance is to try and work on something cross-functional, because you will see how other departments think and approach things. And if you can work with the engineers and the salespeople in addition to the legal team, you're head and shoulders above the other lawyers that are maybe looking for the same job. Okay. Yeah. I think it's judgment and also steady hand, right? Like, like being able to admit, you know, I don't, I don't know, but I'll find out like that's a perfectly acceptable answer. But then you gotta go find out and also be able to exude calm in the process of not knowing the answer right away. That is a really good point. And that is really hard to do to, to have the not my hair's on fire. This is right. Like, like Shelly, like to your point, and I was there too, like understanding, um, getting, getting the cap table role and, and understanding like how the finances work. I, I literally sat there and I was like, I'm a litigator. Like this is not what I did. I, I, this is not at all, and I, I'll say this, like gaining the confidence, there is a level of, I don't wanna say false confidence, but at least externally showing I'm, I'm, I mean, it's your point. I'm, I'm gonna figure it out. Having friends, that's what I like about tech GC having friends that I could be like, Hey, um, question, what are your thoughts on this? Obviously anonymized, always anonymized attorney client privilege, everyone gets it. But, um, leaning on friends and allowing them to be your backstop depending on what ar area of expertise it is that, that was helpful. That was helpful. So externally, exactly what Amanda's saying. And then behind the scenes, making sure that the due diligence is done so that it's not truly false confidence, it's, it's pre confidence. So, um, that's, that's my advice there, Matt. That's a really good point about behind the scenes, having people you can lean on. Being a general counsel can be a really lonely role because you are the boss for the legal team, but it's also lonely among the executive team because sometimes you're the only grownup in the room and you can't exactly compare notes with them on what kind of stupid risk they're taking. So it's really important to have people to talk to. Um, don't let yourself take it all on and take it internally and be up 24 7 trying to figure out the problems. Organizations like Tech GC are here for a reason, use it. Agreed. Agreed, agreed. Well, I'll, I'll ask everyone this, just because our backgrounds are also a little different. Did, did you wanna go in-house and be the general counsel or C L o? Was that the plan or was it just something that you ended up into? And, and I'd love to hear that perspective, uh, Amanda, if you wanna start. Sure. Yeah. I, um, I think I figured it out along the way and then it was thrust upon me, uh, with Battlefield promotions. Not once but twice. Um, but it, um, I think you start to realize once you're in house and maybe folks on the call are feeling this, you kind of being the general counsel and being kind of the expert in a certain area, they're different skills, right? Like it's not necessarily, you know, you become head of corporate in my case and then become general counsel. Like that might not be the right path for you. And I think the thing that I observed that made me feel like it was the right path was that, again, I wanted to, I was more interested in kind of making stuff work for the business and you know, working with other leaders cross-functionally and kind of thinking holistically about how this all works, including how the legal department serves the goals of the business versus I think some people prefer to kind of have their area where they are the master and tell others how, you know, this piece of what we're all doing works. And, you know, I started to get very comfortable, like not being the expert, but trying to figure stuff out and get stuff done for the company. And so that's what led me down that path. But it doesn't mean, you know, first I think it means two things. One, you don't have to have mastery in all these areas in order for that to be the right path for you. And two, if you enjoy having mastery, maybe it's not the right path for you and that's okay too. Absolutely. And and Shelly Yeah, that's a really good point. Being a general counsel is not the be all end all. It it, if you don't want to be a general counsel, that's great. It means, you know, if you want to be diving deep in the lawyering and you, you love the lawyer aspect of it, stay doing that. Because the longer you're a general counsel, the less you practice law. That's just a reality. And I know people who've gotten into the GC position and have been, wow, I hate this because I I, I wanna be a lawyer again. I wanna be working on that. So don't feel like you, the GC is the ultimate goal for everyone because it's not, I think I didn't go into it wanting to be a general counsel, I just knew that I wanted to see more about what was happening with my legal advice than I was seen as an outside counsel attorney. And then once inside you, you just, you start working on things, you see things come across your place. And at some point I realized that I was fitting more into the job descriptions I saw for general counsels than the job descriptions I saw for in-house litigators. And that's when I took a step back and thought, well, wow, maybe, maybe that's what I need to do. Maybe I need to just go for it. That's awesome. And I echoing both points, um, going in-house the first time as an A G C, it, I, it was as a litigator going in-house as a, as a, like a generalist, as a just kind of like a plug and play, figure it out. And I found that was enjoyable. That to everyone's point, like that was enjoyable for me. Yes, I was practicing law, but it was also like, almost like product council, like mini quarterbacking, um, smaller issues or one particular issue. And I was like, that's cool quarterbacking things are fun. That, that may be how I like to practice law. And that's to everyone's point, like being this head of legal role, that's what made sense to me. That, that being said, like, I have friends that are chief ip awful officer, no, but Chief IP attorney in these departments absolutely dominating their field, absolutely dominating their field and they love it. And that is, that is the pinnacle of their career. And that's awesome because to everyone's point here, like you don't have to be, and that's, that's a really good conversation I think you need to have before you even convert, you know, contemplate going up that hierarchy is do I even want this? Because you, I think to everyone here can agree you might get into that situation or Shelley, I think you had even referenced it, like you get into that seat and you're like, well, this kind of sucks. It's kind of not what I wanted. And, and that's, and that might not be what you want to do, that might not be the right situation to be in, especially, um, you know, the company's relying even at that point and in that role and that strategic business legal role. So that's a, that's one thing I, I'll I'll present to everyone is make sure that's what you want to do. Because being either side as an in-house attorney is, is fine, is awesome. Well, and those people are crucial. Like the people, the, your kind of IP leader or corporate leader or litigation leader, like I lean very heavily on, you know, uh, Wynn who runs product and privacy and Michael who runs commercial and they have expertise that I don't have. And so, you know, it's um, you know, I try to make sure that they know that they, you know, in their areas I'm following their lead. Yeah. So, No, absolutely. So let, we're gonna transition to our next topic, which is identifying opportunities in your current role to gain legal experience. And I think that's, that's really important. Let me start with first, what skills do you sharpen? I I think we've talked about this as it's a strategic business role. It's, it's a generalist, but like more like specifically what, what skills would you say you need to be like, I need these to be G C C L L and um, Shelly, do you wanna start? So many of the skills I think aren't legal. You know, you need to, you need to be the diplomat. You need to know how to listen, you need to, how to speak in terms that the non-lawyers are going to listen to so that you can be respected and advocate. Uh, you do need, uh, the basics in a lot of different areas. I think having some basics in employment law is also really helpful to prepare you for it. Um, because those are often the questions that come up where there might not be time to go out and research it. It's more of a, we're gonna have to make that call right now. Um, so those are some things I think to consider. Absolutely. And Amanda? Yeah, I mean, um, when I joined my first, um, in, took my first in-house role, it was the second in command to a woman who had a litigation background. And so her purpose in hiring me, I think was to kind of bolster the corporate side of things. And, um, she had come straight from a firm and I think the toughest thing she experienced, and maybe Shelly and Matt, you guys will echo this, is getting smart on the corporate side of things and understanding how equity works. 'cause you gotta communi, you know, you have to be the face of that to all the employees usually, um, understanding board dynamics. Um, and so things you could actually do today to help with that are read your organizational documents and your voting agreement and learn from your GC about the relational dynamics of your shareholders. And, you know, what are the things that make, you know, corporate governance challenging at your company, for example. Um, that's all stuff that, you know, you could just get smart on now. Um, if you wanna kind of, um, excel into that role. Agreed. I'm gonna say, this is gonna sound really basic, but, uh, basic finance, basic finance, I did not have that background at all. And someone, I mean, obviously that's really important for any in-house attorney, but like, especially if as you go up the chain, I think, like the joke I have, and everyone's gonna make fun of me on this call, I, I imagine, but like, pronunciation of like, of is it ebitda? Is it ebitda, is it whatever it's pronounced as. It doesn't matter. But because the moment I walk into the room and if I pronounce it incorrect, right? Or at least how my team pronounces it, people are gonna look at me a little silly. And, uh, I ended up taking a C L e, I think through Thomson Reuters on like, uh, finance for lawyers. And that was very helpful. That was a skill that I didn't have, uh, getting into this role that I desperately needed to, to echo Shelly's point, communication skills was something that I had been working on because I think how I would talk to people was I would talk to people, um, like, like a, like a piece of a, of, of a puzzle as opposed to being up and looking down and being like, strategically what, why don't we look at it like this? Why don't we try these directions? It was much more, it's hard for me to fully explain it, but it wasn't, it wasn't, um, I couldn't talk, like I was looking at the forest. I was only talking like I could see the trees. And I think that was very helpful is, is understanding how to communicate long-term strategic goals, how to communicate, um, overall what's going on. And again, talking to business folks is really important. And board dynamics, I mean, talking to a board as well, it's like a whole different ball game. So those are all skills I think you really should work on. Again, I'm gonna stress finance and understanding, um, basic legal business industry concepts as well. Yeah. And there's extension classes. I think there's one at Berkeley that they do for, you know, people who have other jobs and just wanna be fluent in this stuff. Um, so think about that. Agreed. Well, I'll ask you this, like as, as lawyers, like have you ever tackled, sorry, as general counsel C L o, have you ever tackled like non-legal related issues? Is that an aspect of the job? I feel like I forgot to ask that. I think it's an important aspect of the job because again, you're a business leader at this point, being the general counsel. And it's important to tackle things even if you don't have the background in them. Because remember, you're a lawyer, that means you know how to, to run projects, you know how to spot issues, you know how to do this stuff. But an example, we were in between heads of marketing and the c e O wanted to start a customer advisory board. So he pointed at me and I said, well, okay, I know nothing about that, but I do know how to herd cats. 'cause that's, you know, what you do as a lawyer and I know how to translate things into normal speaks. So I could be the one who'd have the tech person tell me what would be an important type of person for a customer advisory board and then go to the salespeople and we could try and figure out what that meant. And, and I could keep people on track because since I was a litigator, I know about how to keep things on track so you can take your skills and tackle things that have nothing to do with being the, what you think of being the general counsel. And it's important to do that because then you show the rest of your executive team that you are in it for the business. You are not just in it for the legal team. Agreed. Yeah, same thing. I, you know, took over the HR function for six months when, um, we lost our head of people at one of my prior companies. Um, and you know, the sa the same skill, you know, you have to have as a GC who's not a subject matter expert in every single thing that happens that's, you know, legal at your company, it relates to covering other functions as well. If, if that comes up and, um, Matt, you raised a really good example earlier with procurement, you know, that's an another area where, you know, legal can often jump in even though it's not your, your lane, um, because you want it to be successful for the benefit of the company in general. Um, so, so I think resisting the temptation to kind of like block stuff because it's not, you know, legal work and, and thinking about it more as I just want this to be successful and I think I can lead it to success, um, is the way to look at it. Yeah, I, I, I led health insurance, um, at, at a, at a previous company. Fun If, if you're like, if you're watching this and that's something that could be on your plate, just don't do it. I mean, I recommend definitely jumping to these projects, but that wasn't fun. But, uh, to everyone's point, like that's a non-legal aspect of the job that I did take on because I think it's your point being in that role, you're also, that's something to be cognizant of if you want to be general counsel. C L O is you're also a business person, you're also an executive. And, um, no one was willing to tackle it or some people were willing to tackle it. But maybe Shelly, to your point, like maybe didn't issue spot quite what we, you know, this might be a problem, this might be better. And I jumped in and I didn't love it, but I did it. And that is an aspect of the job to, to be cognizant of is not to say you always have to handle health insurance, but you may handle these projects that just that arise that may not be fully legal. What you just said, Matt, I think goes to, I saw one of the questions in the chat about, you know, will VCs hire you as GC if you were not a subject matter expert in corporate work? And I think what we've all been saying is absolutely, because you aren't just going to be corporate doing corporate work. I had no background in that and I've been hired by two VC companies as the general counsel. So you just remember that the skillset you have translates to what the problems they are that they need to solve. And you have outside counsel that can help fill in the blanks on the things you don't know how to do. But what the company needs is someone who can steer the ship every single day rather than steering it on one particular subject. And by the way that, you know, Matt's and Shelly's point about kind of jumping in to cover stuff, um, that can be relevant, I think to folks who are in organizations that are larger and maybe a little bit more siloed, you know, where the, you know, DG D G C or a g C role is very specific and not, you know, wide reaching like mine was. Um, offering yourself to jump in on a cross-functional project, I think can show, can start to build and exhibit the muscles that you would need as a gc, right? Um, it shows that you're kind of trying to make stuff work even outside of your lane, um, and it can create that visibility that leads to others thinking of you as different larger roles arise. Agreed. So let me ask everyone this, how do you know you're ready to, to, to go from E G C to D G C to GC or C L L or D G C to C gc? It's a lot of acronyms going from one stage to the other. How about that? It's a little bit easier. Uh, how would you know, I guess what are you, is there just like a timeframe or how, how would you think about that situation? I would say you're never going to be fully ready. And if you keep waiting for the moment when you are the expert in everything, you're completely ready. You'll never make the the leap. Um, my view is it's when you are not being challenged anymore and when you are looking for a different challenge that has more to do with the business than with the law. That I think is the point when you need to start thinking maybe general counsels is what I wanna be. And just quickly, someone asked a question about whether there's a difference between a GC and a chief legal officer at Venture Capital Company. My view is, that's just same thing, different title. So you get the board exposure, you're doing everything. I mean, it's nice to have the word chief in your title, but I've never had it and I've never had an issue with being the, the head poncho when it comes to the legal stuff. I think that's fair. And Amanda, Yeah, I think that's a vanity title. They're the same. I close myself for a second. Um, I'll be Honest. No, that's fine. That respect. Um, so how do you, how do you know you're ready to take the leap from hc? Oh, that question? Yeah, that question. Um, how do you know you're ready to take the leap? Um, yeah, no, I think, um, as someone who gets bored quickly, um, from once I've achieved mastery of something, I like Shelly's point about, you know, when you're not feeling challenged anymore, I think is the right one. Um, I think there are ways to kind of dip your toe in the water, um, before, you know, rather than it being this kind of like, first I'm an A G C and now all of a sudden I'm the gc, you know, you might consider opportunities to even just like cover for the GC while they're out on vacation, um, or, you know, parental leave or what have you. Like, are there ways where you can kind of like experience that experience or like hop into a board meeting to present on something or just get a little exposure so it doesn't feel this like this big, you know, shift, um, from something you've never even touched before. Absolutely. So we're gonna transition to our, our final topic then. We've got a lot of questions from folks, but it's building relationships with internal stakeholders to better understand the legal needs. So, um, going from, I guess going from one organization to another, it's very important to jump in and then all of a sudden you're the GC and you have to create these relationships, but it's also internally when you are an A G C or A D G C transitioning to a GC or C L O role, um, building those relationships ahead of time. And I'd love to know from everyone, how, how do you build up those relationships or what are best practices for building up relationships with your business departments? And um, Amanda, do you wanna start? Yeah, and, and shell, this is a good one. Um, because Shelly and I have very different perspectives on this, right? So Shelly came to her GC role outside of the company, and I came to both my GC or head of legal and then GC roles from within the company. And so my experience, um, in building those relationships was that I had already started to build them before I was the gc, right? Like the, the way that transition, um, w was kind of smoothed, at least in this, um, at Bolt when I went from head of corporate to GC, was that I had been, you know, running transactions that required me to partner closely with the C F O, with the head of corp dev, with the head of hr and leaning into those relationships meant and, and the C E O, right? Um, if you're, if you're dealing with a, you know, kind of existential transaction. And so building those relationships from within when I didn't have that role, I think made it easy in other people's minds to think of me kind of slotting into that role. We had already built relationships, we had already built trust. Um, and so it, I think it maybe didn't seem like that much of a stretch for folks, but I'd be really interested to hear Shelly's position coming from the outside. Yeah, from coming from the outside and landing in a company as the general counsel. I think the most important way to build trust is to listen people, well, people love to talk about themselves, right? But you also learn so much listening to your peers talk about the things that are going on in their department. Because if you get them talking, they're gonna talk about the general issues they're trying to address, as opposed to if you say, what legal concerns do you have, the, the brain's gonna go to a very narrow area of what they think is is legal. So I personally set up one-on-ones with everyone on the executive team on a regular basis, and I, I don't have an agenda, I just listen to them and my husband says, I'm like the company therapist and maybe I'm, but that builds trust with them so that they know they can, um, talk to me, they can come to me. They don't have to feel like they go around legal and then they're more likely to involve me in things. I I have a question actually. This is, this is unrelated to all this, but it now, it's, now it's just me personally asking, curious, do you guys ever do office hours, like legal office hours? And if you have, have you found it helpful? I have not. I've heard a lot of people talk about that. I, I thought about doing it and then I became slightly terrified at the number of people who might come in and just start wanting to ask me about how to manage their divorce or something like that. So That would be so funny though. Um, it would be horrifying, but also I'd be like a little funny, uh, Amanda have you, have you dealt So, um, we've done equity office hours because that's something where like employees don't necessarily have that expertise and have a lot of questions. And so I think that's a good thing, a good topic to like set aside for people. In terms of legal in general, I don't find, like, I think to hold office hours you have to presume that people have like a lot of questions that they don't have a forum to ask. And we, at least at Bolt, we don't have a problem with people being afraid to come to us directly with their questions. We've got a lot of questions so it doesn't feel like a need. That's fair. I it just that, that thought about it. 'cause I did do that originally to build trust with the business, um, and it was okay, it, like, I don't know if it was ultimately very helpful, but I was curious just because that is a tactic some people use to, even if no one has questions, it's like, oh, legal's always there. Like, I can always on a, on a lunch hour. But I, I was curious, that was just me personally guys, I'm sorry. But, um, I Like Shelly's approach of, you know, and, and I try to do the same, although maybe I'm not, uh, always perfect at it, but, um, of monthly or quarterly check-ins with all the other leaders, because then it's not like, I think to hold legal office hours, it, it kind of puts a box around your role and Shelly's exactly right. Like if you're able to talk to everybody about what are your concerns in general, what's going on in general and how might you know a solution touch on something I could help you with. And someone asked about that in the chat about how to get them to talk when it seems they're looking to you for an agenda about legal people like to talk. So I think you'll find it's easier than, than it seems. But also I am always asking about, you know, how's your team doing? What projects are they working on? Just questions like that that have nothing to do with my aspect as the gc just to hear what's going on. And that usually gets the conversation going. And yes, I always walk away from those with some nuggets of things that I either wanna follow up on or something where it's clear that two departments aren't talking together or another feeling about maybe we could do a training on this or, you know, here's where maybe my reports could do a better job of getting involved in that department and building up their own profile. Yeah, asking people what's working and what's not working, what is keeping you up at night? Like, those kinds of open-ended questions, like people will tell you all kinds of stuff that, you know, you'll, you'll never get bored, But keeping you up at night, I definitely think you'd get some great responses for that one. Um, absolutely frightening responses. So, uh, I've got another question and this one I personally have dealt with myself. It is, so let's say you get into that role, and it could be in both of you have unique perspectives in this where either you transition to a company, to a different company into that role or you ascend upwards. How do you convince everyone that you are the gc? I know that sound that kind of sounds strange, but I think we've all probably dealt with this feeling before and, um, Shelley, if you wanna start That is the eternal challenge because it's, it's always gonna be an issue whether you're coming up or you're coming in. And one thing I think is important is, again, to be there to help them solve their problems in a way that lets them know you're not trying to take over their turf. So being helpful is, and being responsive is important. Also, knowing the business as much as you can is helpful for them to view you as an equal. So learn about the, the space that your company is in, learn what the competitors are, et cetera, so that you can actually be making comments that are relevant to the business. That I think goes a long way to gaining some respect. Absolutely, Amanda, I agree with that. It can be tough and every company culture is different, but sometimes, you know, folks who, um, maybe come from other companies where this was the case or what have you, can put legal in kind of this box where, you know, they'll come, they'll come to you with something specific, but they don't really like take you seriously as a, as an executive. Beyond that, um, I don't find it particularly helpful and I think can actually be a big waste of time and energy to kind of like stomp your feet and try to, you know, get respect by demanding it. I think it's just kind of what Shelly said, like being a, being helpful, um, being, you know, listening to what people care about and trying to help, you know, solve their problems. Um, you know, having, bringing the expertise where it's relevant, but being, and also being, like I said before, that kind of steady hand even where you don't have the expertise, um, I think it kind of builds itself through practice rather than, and and that's more effective than kind of just saying, Hey, I'm the gc, you gotta respect me. That's great insight. We have a lot of questions that were previously submitted. Again, if you're watching, please feel free to continue to submit questions. We have a bunch, but, uh, and we'll get to whatever we can get to, but we've got some good ones. I'd love to ask this one because I don't have this perspective. I've never been in a public company, but in a large public company where legal function could be compartmentalized, how do you navigate to acquire different skills? And I'd, I'd love anyone's perspective on, uh, Amanda, if you wanna start Shelly, I forget if your company's public, but I think this question actually like can apply public or private, it's more like it where, where there's silos, how do you get other experiences? Um, I think, you know, the silver lining of, of layoffs or attrition could be, hey, I, you know, let me reach over into this area and, and at least try to cover for a little bit, um, is one thing you could do. Another thing is kind of what we talked about before, which is where you see opportunities for cross-functional partnership or maybe something that doesn't have a clear owner, like, hey, we've got people, you know, all these vendors that kind of are the same as each other and it's wasting company money. Like, can I part with partner with somebody in, um, finance to overhaul our procurement policy? I know we keep using that example, but I think it's a good one. Um, I think you, you might have to kind of look for your own opportunities of what, of where you can expand and help or with your work with your GC to figure out, you know, what can I support that's not fully supported right now or, or that you don't have the resources for. Sure. And Shelly, We aren't publicly traded. Before I came a general counsel, I was working for a publicly traded company and I do think, don't be afraid to ask your boss for stretch roles and stretch assignments because the g c always has too much on their hands. So someone who's willing to take on more is, it is going to make them happy. So don't be afraid to ask, but also, like Amanda said, be looking on your own. You know, there are, uh, look for your peers in other departments, you know, don't necessarily have to be looking at the top, but looking for your peers. Are there things that they need help with that you can help with that can give you more exposure? Good insight. I, I've been, me personally, I've been going out and looking at like I A P P and trying to get privacy certification. So like that I've been using that as a way to try to pick up these skills that I may not normally have or I don't have the ability to have. Um, or I mean, I, I keep, we have, we keep saying it, you could always lean on outside counsel, but I mean, again, if it's a larger company where you may not have that ability because you're, you are doing commercial contracts and you're trying to gain exposure and employment law, that may not be helpful. But, um, there are ways to look outwards and get that information and to build up those skills outside of your organization. Um, and kind of leads to the next question is, can you describe how you stay on top of relevant legal info and plugged into overall like the overall legal landscape? And Amanda, if you wanna start? Yeah, This is a tough one that I, I was just talking about. Um, one of my team members, um, you know, leaning heavily on law firms, you know, those, those newsletters are free. Um, and I get, you know, so many of them that I have a special folder for it. Um, that's a good way. Um, I think depending on industry, um, some law firms have, you know, dedicated folks that are staying on top of this. So back, um, when I was at Shift, which is a online used car sales platform, auto regulatory, not an area where I had, you know, a lot of experience but is an area where, you know, people's whole lives are in that space, right? Yeah. And so there are law firms that can gather, are looking and gathering that all up for you. Um, trying to, you know, watch what's happening in DC and stay on top of that by yourself I think is unlikely to be successful. And so leveraging people who are focused on that, um, would be better. Agreed. Then Shelly, Amanda just said, what I was thinking was you can't keep up on everything and to try would mean that you're gonna be reading newsletters all day long, which isn't really gonna do anybody any good. Um, but orgs like tech gc, I mean, we're on this seminar, but there's a lot on its platform that you can do searches for to find out the basics on some things you need to know. And as Amanda said, those law firms are putting out free newsletters every day, you know, read 'em. I, to be honest, have that folder, same email folder with the newsletters. I don't go into that folder as often as I should, but, but don't be like me there. You, you, you know, if you get those, read them, it'll, it'll actually keep you pretty up to date on, on a variety of things. Agreed, agreed. That's a good point though. With the tech GC community, I, you know, we had a, um, maybe others have experienced this. Um, at one of my prior companies, we received like an a d a, uh, compliance kind of shakedown letter from a plaintiff's, uh, attorney who was solely focused on that. Um, it's not something we had focused enough on, um, but there were folks and I kind of wasn't an expert in the area, um, among many other things. Um, but there were folks within the tech GC organization that were like you able to familiar not only with the subject but with the specific plaintiff's attorney and able to say, you know, here's the issue, here's kind of what, how we handled it. You know, you can get 'em to go away with X, Y, Z. Um, so the tech GC resources are very helpful. Agreed. I, I use I same vote, like it's too hard to keep on with everything. Um, I use JD Supra is pretty good publicly or like, 'cause law to, to everyone's point, like with those newsletters, those law firms are also posting on there. Um, I do get the newsletters as well. I don't have a folder, which now I'm going to change that on after this because I've made that mistake myself. Um, and really, yeah, it's like I have like friends I've made sure not to say like I've made friends in my sub practice area, but I definitely friends in various practice areas that I will, I will reach out to from time to time not, it's not like a personal reach out now, it's more of like, hey, question to you like what's going on with, uh, non-competes? What's going on with the NL r b? Are we seeing any change on X, Y, and Z? And, um, it's very helpful. That's been very helpful to keep on top things. 'cause you're right, 'cause all of us just don't have the ability, especially if we're doing work internationally. It's like I, I don't know how you can keep up, but, um, I'm echoing everyone else's points. I don't think there's anything else I could add that, that provides any more value than that. Um, we had an interesting question. I think I maybe could provide some insight as well. It's as the D G C of a mid-size company, I don't manage a team of attorneys. So what are the skills, challenges, resources of managing the legal department? So I guess having the perspective of I don't manage anybody, what should I know? That's a really good question, uh, because I think a lot of lawyers are not necessarily good managers. That's just not what they do. And so it is a different skillset. My philosophy of managing a legal team is my pillar of leadership is generosity. And I think that's something I keep in mind. I have to be generous with the assignments. I dole out, you know, letting somebody take something even if I think maybe I could have done it faster, generous with my time when they have questions, when people need things. Uh, and, and generally generous with their exposure as well in that I want them to be viewed important in their own right. So that's just, that drives everything I do as far as managing a team is keeping that pillar in mind for myself. That's fair. And Amanda, Charlie sounds like a great manager. Um, I, um, I think another thing for first time managers to keep in mind is that, you know, sometimes it can be tempting when you're managing another person to present yourself as kind of the, you know, person who knows it all and has been there before and here's how you do this X, Y, z and that may not be the case. And I think a better management skill would be to admit when you don't know and to kind of let that person, um, be more of a partner on things in that category rather than, um, try to dictate outcomes, um, and give them space to, you know, be creative with the solutions. I think, um, someone said this phrase the other day that I thought was funny. Um, don't hire a dog and then bark for it. So I think letting you know, setting the direction and letting people find the way I think is gonna be, is the hardest thing to transition to doing when you're used to doing everything yourself. That is such a good point because as you grow, as your team grows, you should be hiring people who are smarter than you in certain areas, and you have to be comfortable with that, that they may know more about privacy and that's great, that's fantastic. Let them know more about privacy. That's still, you're still the general counsel, you're still managing them, but let them succeed. I, I think that's a great, a great thing to think of. That's a really good, all that's point. And it actually, I, it leads to a question that's kind of like a tie into that and one of the last ones. It's, so what do you do and how, how do you navigate, um, colleagues that maybe don't want you to encroach on their area, that don't, that are, are, are hesitant to provide you? Like, Hey, I'm an employment attorney, maybe I don't want you to, to touch this handbook that I'm working on. So, uh, I'd love your insight there and Shelly, if you wanna start Sure. That's a challenge and that's a very real challenge for every general counsel you need to approach it by putting yourself in their shoes is my view. What are, what are they afraid of when it comes to you? What kind of scar tissue are they carrying around based on their past experiences with legal teams? And try to ease those concerns in that you are there to help to be a partner, you're trying to take their glory away. Uh, someone had put a question in there about, you know, do you, are you the front and Center for Comms, not necessarily in my mind, it's more important to be effective than to be viewed as the, the mouthpiece. So that's what I was trying to think of is what are they afraid of? What can I do to make them not afraid of this and make, make sure that I'm not feeling like I need some sort of glory moment in all of it. Yeah. Yeah. I use the employee handbook example. Like I don't wanna micromanage an employee handbook. And so I think understanding why someone is, but I do wanna kind of see it before it's going out to the whole employee population. And so I think a understanding why someone is so kind of protective, that they don't want you to be involved at all. And how might you, as Shelly was kind of saying, what is the threat they're perceiving and how might you disarm that so that they're not feeling like there's a threat, right? Whether it's, Hey, I know you're the expert in this and I'm, you know, not trying to take that away from you, or, you know, I trust your expertise here. Um, but, you know, it's, it's always good to have, have more perspectives, um, kind of approach. Um, but yeah, that is a, that's a tough one. Perfect. I have one final question for everyone here, and then I will leave you be, I appreciate the insight, the time, everything you've provided today. I'm gonna take it with me because I've just recently transitioned into this role. So thank you guys. What is one big takeaway you want everyone to, to, to take back from this? Like, that's what I would love. Your, your one piece, your one nugget. Like what do you want everyone to know? Uh, a d g C, an a g c, a corporate council who's watching this today. And I'll give you a moment. I know this one's on the fly. One more. Whoever wants to start, You'll never be perfect, and that's okay. You can still do it and you can do a great job at it, even if you're not perfect. I love it. And Amanda, And similar but different, um, you'll never know everything. And so the best expertise you can, um, master is the kind of mastery of kind of proceeding confidently when you don't know. I love it. My, my takeaway is I'm stealing yours and it's don't, what is it? It's, don't hire a dog and then bark for them. Yes. That's mine. Now I took that. That's, that was fantastic. All right everyone, thank you so much for tuning in. I wanna thank tech GC for, uh, providing Ball Trades, the ability to put on this event. Uh, and I, I want to thank again, Amanda and Shelly. This has been absolutely stellar and I can't say thank you again. That's enough. Thanks Matt. Thanks everybody. Thanks everyone. Fantastic job To Amanda and Shelly and our wonderful moderator, Matt, for giving your time today and your expertise. And again, like said, I keep saying to lot trades for, for making this event possible in first place. And with that, I'm gonna go ahead and close things out and we hope to see you all next time. Hope everyone has their fantastic rest of your week. Bye everyone.
