# M&A Foundation: Laying the Groundwork for a Successful Acquisition

M&A Foundation: Laying the Groundwork for a Successful Acquisition": "We won't be talking about cases and briefs today. Um, we're really gonna be talking about the deal aspects, um, kinda the, the flip side of the exit scenarios here. We just talked about the IPO, so we're gonna talk about kinda the sale process. The goal here really is to give a, a high level, um, overview, and hopefully you get some great tips, thinking about how do I prepare for this? As, you know, internal counsel, um, primarily focusing on folks at companies. Um, there will be some helpful tidbits if you're, you know, uh, GC at a venture fund. Um, but hopefully you'll be able to take some practical information away from this. Um, I'm Josh Cook. I'm a corporate partner at Gunderson Detmer here in San Francisco. Um, I will, um, let everyone else sort of introduce themself. I'm sitting next to my partner, Uh, Excuse me. I'm Andrew Liu. I'm a corporate partner, and I manage the m and a practice at Gunderson. Uh, I'm Scott Darling. I'm the Chief Legal Officer at Stitch Fix, and I was previously the general counsel of, uh, Trulia, which sold to Zillow, and before that, a company called Danger, which we sold to Microsoft. So hopefully some prior m and a experience can, you know, bring something valuable to this panel. Hi, I am Sugen Lee. I'm currently head of legal for Pop sugar, uh, online media company. Before PopSugar, I was at Flurry, which we sold to Yahoo. And prior to that I've worked as outside counsel for many startups, as well as in-house, um, at Mattel, and started my career as a corporate securities attorney at Wilson Sni. Hello everyone. I'm, uh, Kevin Sheen. I work at Google's corporate development group. We're responsible for m and a and, uh, strategic investments at Google. Um, prior to Google, I was an investment banker for several years, so, um, have a number of years of m and a experience to, to talk about today. And, um, yeah, looking forward to providing the non-lawyer perspective here. Great. Well, with that, I think we've kind of broken this in, in our mind, kind of just a chronological timeline. And the, the first question I think worth discussing is sort of, you know, how early, how early is too early to really start thinking about, you know, the m and a process and being prepared. Um, and I think, you know, probably, you know, if I, Susan, I ask you, you know, sort of maybe to start, you know, in your experience, is it day one you've raised money? Is it before? Like what, how, where and when do you start with that? Like, what's helpful? You know, it's, it's probably because I've done the outside counsel, um, and these deals before, anytime I've gone into a company, um, it's always in the back of my mind. So it's at the very beginning, um, whether you've raised money or or not, you're gonna face a lot of these questions in those financing transactions as well. So you might as well start thinking about this. It's really helpful, I find, to be able to communicate some of these issues to your business teams. And it's, um, you can explain to them why you are, uh, looking into all of the source code policies, or you're making sure your privacy policies are up to date. And, and they can generally be annoyed with that. But if you explain to them, we need to know all this because when we are selling the company or if we're lucky enough to sell the company, this will all come up and these will be important issues for the buyer. And, and really that, um, that helps in, in terms of, um, get getting a lot of the house cleaning that, uh, GCs want to get done from the beginning. So I, I think it's never too early. And, and what, what are some of those things? Is it, I mean, is it these days just ensuring what are some of the best practices in terms of, is it dock retention? Is it, is it using Dropbox or Box or picking your kind of service of the day, finding folders? I mean, how much, you know, I guess, and I'm looking both at you and Scott again, but to think about how much of that is actual technology in terms of having organization and how much of that is also the relationship with your other departments, right? Talking with CFOs and finance folks, working with hr. I mean, when and when and how does that start as part of that? I mean, you know, I would say that, um, having a well organized legal department helps not only for thinking about m and a, but just operating your business and, um, you know, that's contracts management, um, you know, a lot of the forethought and, uh, just being organized will make you look cleaner to, uh, potential acquirer. That involves talking to your engineering team about, you know, open source software, making sure they've got some, you know, thought going on and how they're taking in, you know, uh, new stuff that they're using to develop. Um, you can get involved in that and help them, um, you know, develop the right ideas around open source software. And those are just common things that come up in m and a transactions that I've found. And I suppose, I mean, yeah, a lot of us, and you, you guys must have been through this, and I think Kevin, we talked beforehand, you know, there's a, there's an idea of having forethought in terms of a, who are potential acquirers and what will they care about. Yep. Um, and you know, as you think about that, you know, even just looking at Google for example, I mean, are there any key considerations as you think about that, that sort of make that important for you? Yeah, there's, there's several. And, and what I would suggest doing is sort of put your, put yourself in the shoes of a, of a big buyer, if that's indeed the, the other party. Um, what are the things that they would care about that, you know, a fast-growing smaller startup may not have to worry about yet? Um, I mean, open source is a good example of that. Um, oftentimes, you know, engineers at a fast-growing startup just sort of pull code from all over the place out of the cloud. They don't think anything of it. Um, oftentimes those pieces of code require a license. Uh, when we due diligence on a company, we ask for every piece of, of, uh, open source code used in the, uh, in the product. Um, and we ask that companies obtain proper licenses before we actually close a transaction. So that can be pretty time consuming. Mm-hmm. Um, for the engineering team to, to actually go back and try to think of what code they use, but also, um, just to go out and get the licenses if, uh, if, um, if there are a lot, uh, it's not something that's like a total deal breaker, but, but one of those things that sort of adds time to a process that could be, um, potentially mitigated upfront, uh, with a little bit more planning. Um, other things such as, uh, privacy policies, if it's, if you're a user facing, um, product, um, obviously Google has very strict user, uh, user data retention policies, uh, privacy policies. Just take a look at those and, and ensure that your practices and policies are, um, are close to, or, or in conformity with, with, uh, your buyers, um, because you're gonna have to bring them into, into conformity with your buyers, usually at close or, or shortly after. Um, and it just helps save time if you start to think of those things ahead of time. So if, if one of the themes here is, you know, I think we're gonna see, and we'll have some handouts I think you everyone has a link to, is be prepared, be, you know, be always, always be planning ahead. That's, that's great. But the corollary to that is sort of, you know, you're, everyone's constrained on resources, you know, I think most companies here that are in the room and it's like, Hey, I love my, for my legal department to be organized. Yep. But by the way, it's just me and I'm dealing with these HR issues and I'm also dealing with this cap table. So part of the, I, I think the theme I think we're talking about that'll probably go through the rest of this is, is working with external resources, right? Mm-hmm. And so, obviously one of the, one of the ones that I'm sort of, you know, primarily organized with is, is law firm stuff, but I assume accounting and other areas, I mean, you know, and, and so probably a question for even Andrew having done this far longer than I have, you know, how, how have you seen the most effective kind of GCs work with you in the early days to ensure that they are feeling prepared? I mean, they're, you know, any best tips? I think that if you think about, Hey, I I work with my council, this way I can communicate with them, here are the things I want you to be doing or helping me with and guiding me with. Yeah, sure. So I think, um, the advantage that GC really has is the institutional knowledge of the client and the company, and really the personality of the decision makers that are gonna be principally involved in the m and a deal process. And so there's a very important gatekeeper role in terms of largely managing expectations. Um, when the deal kicks off, the external council will have a good idea because they've done that repeatedly. And so that's what we have the reps on in terms of how to get a data room going, how to mark up a merger agreement, but we're not gonna be well attuned necessarily to the particular sensitivities mm-hmm. Of the board members and the other executives. And the GC really will have that, um, secret sauce of knowledge. And I think, you know, sharing that early in the process to make sure everybody aligned, is aligned on expectations is, uh, pretty critical. I mean, mean, but are there you also, and kind of across the table here, I mean, if you think about working with your accounting firms as you start, you know, in some cases, in, in fact in many cases, maybe you have, maybe at best you have a controller, but maybe a VP of finances mm-hmm. In these early days. Mm-hmm. I mean, how do you manage, how do you help the, the team understand your priorities in terms of actually being an organized legal department? I mean, there are other real world scenarios to think through in terms of working with your management teams to kind of say, I know you want me to be working on this project, but boy, this infrastructure I'm trying to build for like the long term, um, you know, seems to be a critical conversation early on. Yeah. I mean, if I, so I've, um, you know, worked at several companies and I've worked with a lot of senior executives. You know, one of the things that I see, um, that is, uh, just critical skill, whether it's a senior legal executive or a senior business executive, is just the ability to build internal consensus to add resources to your team and make the case, uh, to get people. And that, so that's something that I've had to develop over time, um, as I've built legal teams at different companies, is convincing a CEO, like this isn't just a cost, well, maybe just a cost center, but it's important to build for cases. Like, you know, you want to go public in the year, you want to, you know, we might have an MA situation. So I think that's, uh, you know, um, whether you do it through getting headcount, which is one of the primary ways, or whether you do it by bringing on other, you know, partners like, uh, additional law firms, what have you, part-time folks, um, it's just an important thing to be able to do as a, an executive company. Yeah. So Jen, sort of same feeling. Yeah. I, I look to partnering with my different internal business departments as well. So if I am thinking down the road and I, I'm trying to close a transaction where you have to make, make the representations that every single employee that's ever walked through the door has signed an invention assignment agreement, you're going to have that conversation with your hr, uh, head of HR and, uh, make that something that they can start working on. It's not something that legal actually has to chase, but boy, does that make a difference at the end of the day when you're not chasing down, you know, Joe Smith who worked for us seven years ago, but he was an engineer in touch code, and now we can't find him and close the deal. So you, you can explain some of those scenarios, um, to your VP of HR and, and get them on board and let them start doing that work. You can work with your finance team and your accounting team. Um, one of the things that, it's a very simple thing to do, but, you know, ask them to pull, um, a, a a general ledger of every expense you, uh, that's come through in the past two years. And you look at that and you realize, wow, my engineers are signing up for these, you know, click through services, and I've never seen these before. Um, and, and so things will be flagged and you won't be surprised. And, and that's an easy way to look at, are my contracts being reviewed? Do I have record of everything that's being signed or that we're agreeing to? Because at the end of the day, you will have to, um, disclose and deliver all of those things. And if you kind of get, get, um, ahead of that, uh, you won't be scrambling at the very end. And I think we've touched on also, um, developing that relationship with your engineering team, whether you're talking about source code or all the third party, um, analytics or, or, um, partners that you use, um, within your products. Um, you will have to, you know, tell the, the buyer, um, everything that every piece of data that you, uh, use, that you collect, that you disclose and share with your partners. And if you just set up, um, you know, have the conversation with your head of, uh, it as well as your head of engineering and set up some form of tracking so that anytime something new pops up, um, that they want to integrate into your app or, or whatever product, then a, a record is kept. And so it's, um, legal can't do all of that. Right. And no matter how many folks, you, how many other lawyers you add to your team. So it's in a sense, I, I see it as a continuously working relationship, making sure your departments understand why these issues are important, if, um, your end game is to sell the company. And I think, um, they, they typically buy into that and, and they understand, and you can, um, get some of those policies put into place. And I guess that makes me think, you know, as you go through this, there's, there's a world where you like to think, you know, theoretically, boy, I'm building the company, I'm building these best systems, but we're gonna get into talks with a, a banker at some point. Mm-hmm. We will have, um, worked on a, a strategic partnership with one of our or someone in the world, whether it's a Google or a giant buyer out there, for example. I will have seen this coming for many months, but I mean, I think the realities of the world are, in many cases, those, that's not the case, right? Even if you engage a bank in the, the times you do engage a banker, something can come outta the woodwork you weren't expecting. Uh, we talked about your experience, Scott, I think, where not only was it sort of not strategic, it was a competitor that surprised you, right? Yeah. I mean, and it came out of really nowhere. I, I suppose, Yeah. I mean, uh, so this is the Trulia, um, Zillow deal. And the two companies had talked over the years. Uh, there was a discussion in 2011. There was another discussion in 2012 as we were getting ready to go on the road, and we had filed to go public. Um, but the two companies just could never agree on the economics. And then in 14, um, we had been public for a couple years, go, uh, Zillow had also been public. Pete Flint, our CEO was literally at the airport on his way to England for vacation. He's British. And, uh, gets a call from the chairman of Zillow, rich Barton, uh, Pete, you know, the Zillow boards authorized me to, you know, start a conversation with you and we'd like to acquire the company. I've got a document that I'd, you know, wanna send over. It's a letter from our board and, um, you know, it's two public companies that has a lot of implications about, you know, disclosure of the letter. Um, so, you know, Pete was kind of flustered. We got a quick call, no one was prepared for This. Did he call you directly, sort of just, just yourself or, uh, We, I mean, we organized a conference call Yeah. To get me our CFOA representative of our board on the phone. And, um, you know, literally we were scrambling to, you know, get our bankers lined up, get our outside counsel lined up. Um, you know, we had to think about the potential for a, uh, you know, wall Street fight with a, you know, potential proxy fight and a, a hostile takeover. So we had to think about, you know, um, crisis communications firms and proxy solicitors. So, um, we were fairly unprepared. Uh, Did you have a banker picked out or you had to Go? Well, so we'd worked with JP Morgan, um, in our IPO. Um, but you know, they, we hadn't really talked m and a scenario with them at all, so that was starting them up from scratch. And, um, and so yeah, it was a, it was a pretty frenzy process at the beginning. Luckily, it was a friendly conversation, and so we didn't have to, you know, deal with the sort of doomsday scenario. Right. But we had to plan for it. And, uh, yeah. So the, the conversation continued to evolve and, um, you know, we got to the basics of a deal about six weeks later. I mean, relatively quick Yeah. Considering Yeah. That it came out of nowhere, right. Yeah. I mean, 'cause the other side is I think, you know, I'm just curious sort of show of hands or screaming, but I mean, how many people have actually had substantive, like, I've been through the m and a experience, I've talked to bankers, LOI, it's sort of, I probably should have started with this. So really, I mean, not, not very many. It's, you know, vast majority haven't, haven't really been through this side. I mean, and so, I mean, the basics are, I kind of alluded to it before, you know, you're, you're always kind of aware that something could happen mm-hmm. Because these calls come from competitors. Um, or you've been out, uh, as a company for several years and your, your board actually wants you to think about, are there strategic ways for me to get out? We need help to do that. Um, or it can be an inbound bulk call to sort of corp dev from, you know, engineers or someone else who has a connection through the Google, Google process. Um, but neither of these cases, I think kind of from where we started, it's like, Hey, let's be prepared. Let's get there. Um, I should mention at that point, by the way, and the materials we provided, we included a due diligence request list. Mm-hmm. A medium, I would say, length version of what you might expect an m and a, just as an example of how you would actually expect to sort of organize materials and what sorts of things people are worried about. Um, but I mean, you know, once, once we're in this process, and like, maybe it's a question for Andrew, then, you know, how does, how does, how do you end up working with the GC at that point to think through? I'm working with the ver I mean, you think about, you mentioned it, I get on a call, I'm talking to my CFO, we're thinking about our investors, we're thinking about who the banker is, you know, how do, how do you help in that situation in terms of, you know, thinking through the management of the various stakeholders that are there. I mean, it's not only management and bank, it's also, you gotta think about the employees. And I, you gotta think about sort of who else has sort of invested in that. I mean, how does, what is your role on that and sort of how can GC sort of rely on that, I suppose? Yeah, I mean, we'll typically get brought in, I mean, I've imagine from most of this audience, it's gonna be a public company buying a, you know, private venture backed startup. Uh, you know, outside counsel will typically get engaged, uh, when there's a first appro, excuse me, a first approach, which, you know, for a typical public buyer comes in the form of a term sheet. Sometimes you have some advanced warning because corp dev at the buyer's already been talking with the, um, CEO of the seller for a while. Uh, but, you know, outside counsel will typically get involved at the term sheet stage, and at that point Actually would've seen like an NDA or Something. Yeah. Maybe you've seen an NDA, um, uh, but, and at that point, uh, there's very, you know, frenzied, you know, call a two week period to out whether there's really a deal to be had. And so we'll be working directly with the gc, often the CEO and the CFO as well. And to a lesser degree, uh, sometimes the key investors, they're usually, uh, usually the CEOs like to manage that process. So they're kind of brought on board near to the end point where you think there really is a deal to present to them. And, you know, you've already marked up the term sheet kind of addressing their concerns. 'cause most of the time the selling shareholders, employees and the investors will be aligned on most things, uh, unless you're in a unfortunate situation where it's like a washout and then you're fighting over a carve out pool or something like that. I mean, and I think kind of the reverse would be as a, as a sort of the business guy coming into that side of the deal. Right. You're, you submitted the LOI you're working. Is there, are you spending any time with the GCs at all at that stage where, so how do you see their role in, in, um, miscommunication? You know, from just speaking from our, our perspective and, and, you know, following a typical Google process, which is mostly, uh, you know, small private venture backed startups, um, the GC may actually, if there is one, um, may actually get involved before we actually issue an LOI or a term sheet, oftentimes at the NDA stage right. To review an NDA. Um, but, uh, but even after that, uh, Google likes to do a lot of preliminary diligence before we actually make a decision on whether to, to issue an offer to a company. Um, when we, when we actually issue an offer, we really like to close on that offer. So we don't, we don't like to leave things to surprise post, uh, post LOI or post-term sheet. Um, so in that sort of preliminary diligence phase, in, in some cases when, when there is GC support, they will be involved, um, in providing documentation that we may request, um, getting on calls, trying to clarify structure, IP ownership licenses, things like that, uh, that we may need to know before we actually issue an offer. So, um, it really depends on the, on the business and the company. Uh, but, uh, but I don't think it's never too early to engage a GC if, if you have one. I think that, um, it's a good, good base of knowledge, uh, for, for the company. And this is always sort of an open-ended terrible question, but it's one that people, I guess wonder, I mean, at this stage where you've, you've started some conversations, hopefully you've been pseudo organized, right? But you're not super organized, right? So you may, you may find some things, uh, in your own diligence at that point. I mean, I guess question one is just the general, are there any major gotchas that people need to look out for at this stage? And maybe the sub question for that is maybe, you know, are to the extent you've already discovered, uh, we didn't file, um, this person's 83 B, for example. Mm-hmm. Or, um, this person, uh, was a key engineer who left and we never got the, um, his PIA sign, for example. I mean, those sorts of diligence issues, I mean, is is the gotcha there, Hey, that's gonna come out and it's just a timing issue. I mean, what are, are there sort of gotchas that don't do diligence? I mean, do you see any of that? And it's kind of an open question, I think, I mean, I, I tend to, if we're talking LOI pre diligence, um, period, um, I've learned sort of the lessons of what, um, what are some of those coaches. And, um, if, if I, I don't know that someone not signing A-P-I-A-A will surface at that point, um, they, they do that deep dive, uh, post LOI, but I think, um, there are some, you know, they're looking at sort of the key material, um, business, um, relationships. And if you find in, in those which, whether they be your partners, um, and those, those contracts or those relationships are not clean, then, you know, you need to get that fixed. Uh, I think, um, making sure your, your cap table is clean at that point. Um, that's another, um, focus. Um, and some of the, some it, again, I think it depends on the buyer. So you, you look at who the buyer is and kind of, um, put yourself in their shoes and, and see what is important to them. If this, um, like Kevin said, you know, data privacy is going to come up. That's something, and you have both us and, and, and non-US presence, that's going to be a big issue. And you wanna make sure those areas are clean even before they dive into the, the diligence. It goes back to the preparation you were there. I mean, I think, I think I saw you both kind of struggle with the question. 'cause my sense is there's very few gotchas in a sense of like, here are the three things you have to watch out for. Because really there's a million small things that I think mm-hmm. We're all always managing. And it's to the extent you can cover the, the most of that. I mean, I, you know, you've been, you all up here, we have a vast kinda deal experience. And you know, I I, I struggle to think of a time and, you know, I ask Andrew or anyone to think of a time when the deal has fallen through specifically 'cause one, you know, like the exact one PIA, it's usually a significant bus business issue as you dive into metrics or financials or, Yeah, I mean, like the things that you mentioned like an 83 B or A-P-I-A-I, I look at those as kind of like smaller tactical things that people have, you know, gone down that road and there's solutions for those things. The, uh, you know, and, and a little bit about kind of towards what you were saying is, is thinking more strategically about the deal and what's driving it, right? So is this a talent acquisition? Are they, after the technology in the, uh, in the danger acquisition by Microsoft, the retention of the founders was a critical element, and they wanted the founders to basically reverse vest. And so give up some of the vesting on their shares. These guys have been at it for seven or eight years, and that didn't seem fair to them, but the deal wasn't gonna get done. And so, uh, without that, and, um, and so, you know, as a GC, I got involved to help broker a bit of a deal that one of our board members got heavily involved in where some of the deal proceeds went out to special Bowman payments for the, uh, for the founders. So they'd feel more comfortable giving up some stock because they were being compensated in another way. And so those are kind of like the big strategic deal drivers that I think a GC who understands at a higher level what's happening, what the objectives of the acquirer are, what the new real deal drivers are, can help bring some value. Yeah. And obviously in that situation, it sounded like you understood the, who the management team were and their needs. Yes, That's right. You had a really great experience with who the board was Yeah. And sort of where they were coming from on that. Yeah. So Andrew's point earlier I thought was very astute in that, um, you know, good GC understands the relationships around the table and can help broker, you know, manage the relationships, um, when, you know, certain people aren't seeing eye to eye can actually be a bridge. And that, and that's probably a good segue to think, I mean, that's probably the case as we think through, you know, we've worked through the LOI, which is its own process. Mm-hmm. You know, to kind of get to that, let's say we've signed that we're now working towards a definitive baked into that assumption of assigning the LOI is a lot of considerations, right? Mm-hmm. Deal structure, how quickly we think we want to close, what the consideration is, what, how that impacts everyone sort of across the cap table and the other stakeholders. Um, so I, it sounds like, you know, at that point, having that, that knowledge, I mean, really being able to understand the very stakeholder interest on that and being able to kind of understand, negotiate with your outside lawyer, but be able to bring that to bear with Andrew. I mean, you tell me, you've been on both sides of this buy and sell, but having someone as a point person, it's not always the gc, I mean, but having someone who can actually tell you, Hey, here's the various interests that are play the CEO feels particularly strongly, even though we think this is market, and we can tell Mrs. Market, we know the CEO feels strongly about that, having that person there feels like, you know, either if your external counsel's not doing that, you have to be that person internally, I think who has to be able to do that. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, you, the last thing I think anybody wants is for a deal to get jeopardized at the 11th hour because there was some consideration that, uh, outside counsel should have known of and presented in the documents, but didn't because of communication or coordination. Um, because from the buyer side, you know, they're just gonna be skeptical and view that as some sort of strategic sandbagging to win a point when in fact, that could be the fur furthest thing from the truth. It might just be somebody wasn't aware of a particular sensitivity. And so, I mean, at that point, so now we're, we're in that, I mean, you're, you're working with hopefully if there's a gc you're working with the gc, you're working with someone at the company, who's that point person? I mean, what, what, what are the key components of the GCs role at that point? Or is it dependent at your stage? I mean, at some point you, you, you guys have had similar experiences it seems, but is it always just due diligence? Is it actually still brokering these points? Is it vary across the board as you have gone through different size companies on the sale process? I mean, does, how, how, how much is that spectrum? Does it change for you guys internally as you kind of enter the stage of we're managing the deal now, there's a merger agreement out, lawyers are lawyering away, you know, where, where do you sit in there and and how does that change, I guess, depending on where the company is in your experience? Yeah, I think it depends on, um, your, your familiarity with the process. So if we, um, based, based on your, um, hands raised, um, your lack of experience having sold a company previously, your relationship with your, your head partner corporate council is going to be a lot different than probably how I work with my corporate council having sold and, and done this before. So, um, having that conversation up front, um, understanding the scope and timing is really important, um, in terms of what, you know, what resources are your outside counsel going to add to this, and what resources do you have to offer? And making sure those, uh, really work together. Uh, there, there could be the separation of, um, your outside counsels are going to lead and drive the process with the definitive merger agreement or asset purchase agreement. Um, where do their associates and your legal team, and you fill in with all of the disclosures and diligence and, and production that you have to do. Um, at some point, uh, not collaborating on that is you're gonna hit, um, a train wreck, um, because, uh, they will have to, you know, produ in some cases produce massive 200 page schedules, which I've had to do. Uh, and they need to know some of the gotchas in those disclosures, whether it stems from the, the contracts that are problematic, uh, some of the IP issues that may be pro problematic or litigation, your corporate counsel's not going to be handling your li litigation day to day. So that's the information that you need to feed them and make sure that they understand so that when they're driving the reps and warranties or, or the, um, definitive agreement, they have all of that in the back of their mind. You may part partner really closely. And, and I tend to do that because I have the corporate experience and, and I feel that's the, a really good working relationship. But if you don't have that corporate background and you haven't done this before, I think your, your reliance and and trust on your outside council's going to be quite different. Um, and, and they should, uh, and you should make that expectation very clear up front. I need you to explain every, you know, what this means, what is the, um, uh, you know, the holdbacks, the indemnities, the baskets, you know, think things that, um, I think corporate councils who've done this before, understand these are sort of the big ticket issues that you'll have to negotiate probably at the, you know, at the l lo I stage. But what does that really mean? Um, you know, just an example of my, my team Gunderson is my outside counsel. Uh, my team at Gunderson will, will drive the A PA 'cause that's, um, a massive project. Um, but they look to me because, for example, there's a knowledge qualifier, um, which, uh, triggers my CEO and CFO and whoever else they have on that list. And so it's my job to then go back and make sure I have every single one of those folks weigh in on the fact, do they know that there is, um, some, some pending claim out there. Um, and so, you know, that's a good, um, example of where you, you need to work together in, in, in driving the, those pieces. Yeah. Um, you know, Sujin had kind of on the negotiation portion of the role of the gc there's the diligence element and, you know, understanding the business really well. Um, you know, the only the additional things I would add is one around communication. So we heard from somebody on the, uh, IPO panel before, how important internal communication is. That's really important and you need somebody thinking about that. Um, you know, in the deals that I've worked on, um, you know, I've always, um, you know, been a big part of that team that's thinking about those issues, which are critical. Um, And I mean, just to break that down. Yeah, sure. I was thinking about that as Soji was saying it also. Yeah. Because in many cases, that early part where we talk about the LOI phase and we're negotiating mm-hmm. There's really just a, usually a very small subset of the Absolutely. Of the team that knows about it, right? Absolutely. Yeah. But, um, I'm thinking about, you know, when you're ready to announce what is the employee reaction gonna be, right? What's the messaging to the employees? I mean, there's a whole, you know, another point is just the employee element of this and working with your, you know, HR team to set up the right plans. You know, are you gonna lay off a bunch of people? There's a lot of thinking that needs to go into that. I mean, even from a warn act perspective, if you're doing huge layoffs for sure. Um, so there's that element, there's a big communication element to that. And then, um, you know, all of this is part of the go forward plan. I mean, you know, one of the things we haven't even touched on here is just the integration element. And I think one of the most interesting things I found transitioning from, I'm a former Gunderson, uh, associate as well, so I'll just give that disclaimer, um, was the, the realization I had having gone through an acquisition and understanding that, you know, as a law firm lawyer, you're really only seeing the, the front half of this thing. And it's just like the tip of the iceberg. What's so important is planning and making sure, and you know, Kevin can speak to this a lot, is the integration element of the deal. Mm-hmm. Make sure there's success. I mean, both from the acquisition, the acquirer side, making sure that they, you know, get the value they saw in the deal, but also from this, you know, this group of people that you've been working with for years, uh, to make sure that they have a, you know, awarding experience in the, you know, post acquisition. And I wanna ask Kevin about that too, because it feels like, I mean, who, who's, who's generally in the middle of that, you and the, and the CFO and hr, I mean, who's driving that comm internal communication plan? And I, the, the reason the question you go to Kevin afterwards is I think whatever that plan is has to be coordinated with the potential buyer, right? So on the front end, who, who are the kind of key players typically on, on sort of thinking through That plan on the employee Communication? On the employee communication and rollout? Yeah, so it's, you know, hopefully you have a senior, um, communications personnel on board who's gonna be involved. I think, uh, members of the HR team are gonna be heavily involved. Uh, as a gc you're gonna be involved. Some CFOs may be involved depending on kind of their role in the organization. The CEO will also want to have a, you know, big involvement. And then depending on if the CEO e's still a founder, you've gotta bring in the founders who, you know, it's their baby. So it's gonna be Very important. You can't underestimate the number of questions the team has in that situation. Yeah. 'cause everyone feels so personally impacted. Right. Right. And it's a really, it's a question of how, what kind of resources can I, you know, as the GC Sure. Bring to us and what do I have available to them? So it's the internal team. Yeah. But then you're right. I mean, it's very important. You gotta be coordinated with the buyer because they in a lot of ways want to drive the communication. And that's where I was going with the segue is I think that the buyer actually can be a, a resource for you, I think in that situation as well. Yeah. Particularly when it comes to employee relations and things like this, this is where the seller and buyer are really should really be very well aligned. Yep. Um, you know, from Google's perspective, every deal is a talent deal. Don't matter how big or small, because if the, if the, um, if the team is not happy or doesn't have a good experience, uh, during that first integration phase, then the whole deal just just goes away. It just doesn't matter what the rationale was because you need that team there, um, to really help, uh, help with integration and help make the deal a success in the long term. Um, just to give you an idea of how important that that is, we have an entire integration team that's solely dedicated to, to making sure that integration goes smoothly, not only from an employee perspective, but technical integration, product integration, um, communications externally. Um, the branding, if there's a brand involved that we need to, uh, manage, um, every aspect of integrating a company into another larger company is, is difficult. Uh, and that's, I I would say that that's probably the reason the primary reason m and a is not successful in, in situations where it's not successful is because of poor integration. Um, it's nothing that happened during the deal aspect. Right. During the deal negotiation, it's actually integrating the company. Uh, I would say, I mean, not to give Google too much credit, but I mean, that, that's kinda one of the best case scenarios where you have a buyer like Google who comes in, who's actually been through this a lot, who has a team who can help you Yeah. Who can help align on that. I mean, in many cases, especially these days where we're finding sort of lots of industries, sort of industry company leaders coming in and entering our tech zone, so to speak, um, they're not that organized. And so it really becomes a question of going back to your point, finding those internal resources and maybe working with external counsel on that. We're getting short. I mean, we, we could spend some time getting into the definitive agreement and talking about some key components. Yes. Um, do you wanna open up, I was gonna say maybe we open up some questions while we got some time here, um, and make sure we're recovering questions from folks. There's one in the front, Hillary. Um, so a question is, hey, what, what if the sale, is it maybe as successful as you hoped and the proceeds don't flow through the preference stack to, you know, the common stockholders and employees and, um, kind of how do you manage, how do you manage that situation as a gc? Um, considering you're, you're on the bottom of that stack, actually as an employee as well. Um, you been in that Situation. Um, yeah. And, and I think, uh, part of that is, uh, working with your executives to communicate to your employees. What are some of the upsides of that deal? I would imagine if you're in that scenario already, um, it's probably because things aren't going so great and, uh, the fact that this trans post-transaction could mean a, a, a much more stable, um, employment environment, um, if, um, not doing the deal means there's going to be layoffs. Um, so those could be hard conversations. Um, there could be, uh, additional employee retention type of aspects to the deal that could be brokered. So it is at, at the end of the day, like Kevin said, you know, looking at these deals, they involve people and, and it's about talent. And if you want to retain those folks, then um, there has to be something more than, um, they're stock component. And if that's getting washed out, then I think, um, making sure some of that is being thought of by your CFO and your CEO. Yeah. And the buyer can help in situations like that as well. Um, I mean, like I mentioned earlier, um, the talent is very important. The, the, a good team experience is very important. If right off the bat, one day after close the team already feels like they, um, were wronged in some way, then it's not good for the buyer either. Um, and so we'll often structure our compensation packages or something like that to, to ensure that the team's happy in the long run and, um, and sticks around in the long run. I mean, a, a, a, a deal for a buyer will be unsuccessful if the team leaves after six months. Um, and whatever they did pay up front that went to the, the preference stack will be lost. Right. We'll have not gotten that value out of the transaction. So it is in the buyer's interest as well to make sure that the team's happy, um, when they come over and, and, and actually sticks around for the long term. Yeah, I mean, I would say, you know, one of the key consideration that I, I keep using the, the term stakeholder, but look, look around the table and say, where are the various interests coming in and what are their incentives, right? And then that'll help solve how do we get people aligned and the extent we need them to. But, um, that's one where you can, you know, talk to external counsel and, you know, we've been through lots of these, um, as it turns out. 'cause the bulk of the, the folks we work with don't have the successful giant sale where everyone is, can be more aligned when we're all happy and have smiling faces. Um, so, And, and one market trend, which is helpful out here at least is in the past five years, almost all the big public buyers are using retention pools as sweeteners. And that often provokes its own food fight between them and the VCs over how the pie is getting cut in the deal. But then, you know, so management can often use the buyer as the villain in terms of that and tell their investors, Hey, you know, Google's the one insisting on making sure the team's happy for all the legitimate reasons Kevin cited. Mm-hmm. And therefore, there's gonna be a big chunk of this deal that's go forward retention, and, you know, people should still get a little parting gift for seeing the deal through. So let's talk about a carve out plan mm-hmm. As well. And you know, that's usually how the discussion goes. Yeah. Oh, see one on the corner too. You're holding, is there Anything materially different about Dylan? The question is, does does diligence differ? It's a acquisition or a, um, what was the other one sorry, for Versus an investment? Yeah, versus an Investment round. Excuse Me. I mean, it's usually five or 10 times more intense in an acquisition because the buyer's getting all the problems. And you know, there's also things like, you know, there's usually a bigger budget for an acquisition and people are more worried about risk allocation. So it's usually much more intense. It's, it's a great question. I mean, and what we, what we probably should do is also we can include a link to a standard private equity financing diligence request list, which is all of two and a half pages and very high level. And the normal m and a one is far longer than that, uh, and far more detailed. And that's pretty indicative of the process also. Um, I saw something in the back there. There you go. I mean, really a question of how can you be more integral to the LOI negotiation process, essentially as gc? I mean, fair question and, and I leave it to some experienced GCs here, Scott or su? Um, yeah, I mean the, the key deal points for me are, I mean, particularly around employees and helping the board think through, um, you know, what the tricky, you know, employment issues might be for retaining certain people, certain teams, uh, making sure people stick around who may not have a big role in the go forward combination, uh, but they're integral to getting the deal done. I think those things to highlight for the board who, you know, are looking at it from 10,000 feet may not see. So I think those are important things that GC can bring. Yeah, I, I would definitely agree with that. And in my experience, because the board and, and maybe even the executives are looking at this from that 10,000 feet level, um, I I, I find that portion is often forgotten. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Um, and so as GC again, it's, it's about people. And so you wanna make sure that at the end of the day, um, they, they are taken care of. And so it's a, it's a small component of the LOI typically, but I think it's very important. Um, another thing is I think, uh, just making sure expectations are very realistic. So at the LOI stage, we're, we're usually, uh, negotiating the no shop, which is a certain period. And, um, and it, it's related to how fast can we close this deal. Um, of course from the executive's position, they wanna close it tomorrow and they've heard of these deals that close in a weekend. I mean, that's just not realistic, uh, in most, in the vast majority of cases. So, um, making sure that you're not surprising the executives when you actually go into the transaction. And we have this expectation that you will sign and close in 15 days or 30 days and, and that's what they're really expecting. And you realize that that's just literally impossible. Whether it's because of your foreign entities, um, you know, there are em employment laws in in the UK that require you to do all, you know, these two P processes. I mean, there's a lot of stuff that will never, um, catch, uh, a, a CEO's, um, radar, um, that you will have to point out to them very early on and, and set those realistic expectations. So nobody's surprised, and I think they will appreciate that, um, versus coming to them at the very last minute and saying, oh, by the way, we can't close this because of x, y, Z reason. And, you know, they, they don't care. Great. Do we have time for one more question or looking can get someone to say yes or no? That's, There's your hand right there. Go ahead. Yes. See, um, yeah, So you can talk about which slide you company and everybody hadn't really, Yeah, I mean, so the questions kind of about the, you know, what are the tensions that are created, uh, when, you know, s sort of management or key folks have acceleration for a sale of a company, single trigger acceleration. Um, and how do you look forward on that and sort of, you know, think through that process with folks before you get to the sale perhaps? Yeah, I, I mean, I've actually never seen it really be a big issue. Um, in situations where people have very strong change of control terms, um, the buyer's gonna recognize that through diligence and is gonna, uh, you know, shape the deal economics in a way that they preserve, you know, the team that they want to keep. And, um, you know, they're gonna do whatever they can to make sure those people are incented to wanna stay. So, uh, you know, you could see, you know, if the deal terms are negotiated upfront and then diligence reveals these things later as they dig in, you can see some of the economic shift around a little bit. And, uh, you know, I've generally seen that both the buyer and the seller are pretty flexible. 'cause at this point, everybody wants to get a deal done and make, you know, the employees happy. I mean the, the, the foundry example I gave in the Microsoft transaction, I went through as a perfect example. And Andrew, you must have seen plenty. Yeah, I know you and I just worked on one of those not too long ago. Yeah. I think, uh, savvy buyers generally solve this issue at the L LOI stage. Um, because, you know, the, the tough ones would just say no acceleration provisions will be honored, they will be renegotiated as part of the deal. And by the way, the key execs are gonna revest now do you want to do this deal and that, and either you negotiate that in the LOI or not or walk away. So I think it's, uh, you know, yeah, I agree with what Scott said. It's usually not a huge impediment 'cause it's usually resolved pretty quickly upfront. You set people's expectations. Yeah. I can't think of a deal where we've actually not gotten to a deal because of that issue. Mm-hmm. Um, we usually, we usually get to some arrangement that works for both sides. Uh, we do like to know about it upfront, um, so that we can draft an LOI in a way that's appropriate for, for the buyer. Um, but yeah, we, we, we balance, you know, is, is this person getting so much money they're just gonna go sit on a beach for the rest of their life or, or do they have enough incentive going forward to, to stick around and, and you know, so that we can get the value out of them that we actually pay for up front. Greg, are we out of time? I can't, I mean, this clock says no time, but I just wanna, I'm, one more question. You have, you've been raising your hand very diligently, Greg, please. Those dang VC GCs. Yeah, I, I work with all of 'em at Gunderson. So we have good relationships and haven't had problems. So yeah, I think there is a market trend where the funds will often hire external counsel and deals, especially ones with large exits to make sure their interests are looked after. So, you know, as company council, we're used to having, you know, a copilot on deals this days. So it's generally pretty smooth and often they will drive tougher terms and if they're like strategics, like if you happen to have intel on your cap table, they will be more aggressive than you will ever be as a seller. So, you know, you can free ride on that to some degree. Yeah. And they'll get involved, I think pretty early with, 'cause the board will know about this and they'll actually bring them into that circle, I assume relatively early if you know they're gonna be there. Right. I mean, but it's definitely a trend that we're, we're following and it's part of Good. Well thanks everyone for your participation today. Thank you. Thanks.
