# TechGC Virtual Dinner: Level Up Your Board(Jolie Siegel, C4 Therapeutics; Alan Smith & Kat Duncan, Fenwick)

TechGC Virtual Dinner: Level Up Your Board(Jolie Siegel, C4 Therapeutics; Alan Smith & Kat Duncan, Fenwick)": "Hello everyone, and thanks for taking the time to join our tech GC virtual dinner today. Um, just a few quick housekeeping notes before we get started. Um, if anyone had any issues with the DoorDash codes, feel free to send me a private message in the chat feature. We'll, we'll get that sorted, but hopefully you were all able to order some dinner and drinks and we highly encourage you to enjoy those dinners and drinks. Um, and thank you everyone, uh, for joining via video. I don't really have to tell anyone to join on video, so that is great. Uh, this will be an interactive discussion. So, uh, we welcome all questions, comments, and, uh, feel free to unmute yourself during, um, with when any question or comment comes up. Um, but with that, we can go ahead and get started. I'll pass it over to our tech GC host for the evening, uh, Jolie Siegel, she is the CLO of C four Therapeutics Jolie. I'll pass it over to you. Thank you, Tara. So looking forward to this conversation tonight, and excited to have all of you guys joining us as well. My name is, as you said, is Jolie Siegel. I'm the Chief Legal Officer at C four Therapeutics, which is a company working on creating a new class of degrader medications for oncology and other, uh, therapeutic areas. And I've been with the company since June last year. I joined, uh, a couple weeks after a series B, and we immediately launched into an IPO, which closed, uh, 90 days after that. So in my first 120 days an IPO, that was interesting. Um, and since then we've gone on to get our first trial into the clinic and also do a follow on financing, uh, even before S3 eligibility. So it's been a busy and eventful year. On a personal note, on top of all that, I went on maternity leave at the end of May, so I'm finishing that up and go back to work next week. So, uh, lots of stuff going on, but did decide to tip my toes in the water with a board meeting this past week to just try and listen in 'cause I can't get enough of board dynamics. So that's sort of my background. Uh, we've got really great leadership from Fenwick with Alan and Kat on the line with us today, and they're gonna take us through a number of topics that we've thought about in terms of how to manage and get the most out of your board. Of course, as always, the best discussion come from comes from us asking questions and us sort of pushing through different scenarios and getting each other's input. So I would ask that folks, please chime in and let's make this as interactive as we possibly can. But I just wanna, you know, at the outset, thank the f team for their sponsorship, the event tonight. And I'll turn it over to Alan and Ka and let them introduce themselves. Yeah, say I'll go first. Uh, so thanks Julie. Uh, so my name is Kat Duncan. I'm a corporate partner at Fenwick and West. Um, I guess just a little bit about me first, and then I'll speak just really briefly about Fenwick. Um, so I just made a partner this year and, uh, so exciting milestone for me. Uh, and I've been at Fenwick for over 10 years. Uh, I, my practice is predominantly, uh, capital markets and working with public companies as well as working with, uh, private companies. Uh, on the public company side. I just completed taking, uh, Remitly Public. Uh, they had first day of trading last Thursday. Um, and I've worked with Alan on, uh, Redfin and Smartsheet, uh, here in the Seattle market. Uh, and then I also work with other public companies like Chegg and DocuSign. Um, on the private company side, I work with a number of, uh, later stage, uh, private companies that are in the consumer space. So like a Madison Reed, which does hair color primary kids, which does kids clothes. Uh, and I also work with a number of, uh, video gaming startups. Um, Fenwick, uh, is a firm that I'm sure, uh, I think, I think there's actually one client on the line. Uh, but we're a tech and life sciences, uh, law firm. So been around for over 50 years with, uh, presence up and down the west coast. So we've got offices in, you know, San Francisco, mountain View, Santa Monica, Seattle, as well as New York, and we're going to open a DC office as well. Um, our bread and butter is working with, uh, you know, technology and life sciences companies doing everything from corporate work, financing, employment, uh, you know, intellectual property, uh, doing licensing agreements, uh, you know, patents, litigation tax, uh, so anything and everything to service our, uh, our tech clients. So with that, I'll hand it over to Alan. Thanks. Um, I think Kat, uh, painted that picture pretty well, so there's not a lot left for me, but that's appropriate. Um, yeah, I'm, I'm both a, a practicing attorney and also I'm the chair of our corporate group. So I helped open the Seattle office for Fenwick in 2008 and been practicing for about 25 years working with technology and life sciences companies of all stages. My mission is to find the next great startups, grow 'em up, help 'em raise money, go public, buy other companies, and then many of 'em get sold down the other side. I've worked with a lot of our regions, uh, leading, uh, public companies over the years. Uh, my most recent IPOs are Smartsheet and Redfin, that cat already alluded to Impel, neurop Pharma earlier this year. And, um, have had a, a, a lot of board experiences over the years, good and bad, from shareholder activism to hostile takeover defense, to board conflicts, um, you know, tricky executive terminations. So, um, we can certainly tell war stories or probably come up with scenarios and help answer your questions that you, you may have look forward to your questions. Awesome. So I think the form effort tonight, just a couple things. One, well, I have some questions that I can put to Alan and Kat that we can go through, but before we do that, we'll follow through on our usual format of doing introductions. So I, I've given my introduction, we'll ask folks to introduce themselves, give a second or two on who their, what their company is, and then one challenge that you're currently facing, uh, bonus points if it ties into our topic of board matters today. So I'll give you my one challenge that I'm thinking about. You know, we've got a, um, ex a an engaged board of directors, but we don't have, uh, a lot of public company director experience on our board. So thinking about how to keep our board as well educated about what's topical and important today and what investors are expecting from directors is something that I'm always thinking about. And I'll turn over, I'm gonna go on my screen to Christine, who's first one up for me. Hi, everybody. Good evening. Um, happy to, to join this group. Um, so I just joined at Fire as its first general council, uh, three weeks ago. And we have our first, uh, board meeting coming up. Well, I should, I should say, I have my first board meeting coming up the first week of October. So this topic is very timely for me. Uh, previous to at fire, I was general counsel at Acquia. I was there for eight years. Um, so it's, it's nice to see all of you and I, I look forward to the discussion. And Christine, why don't you pick somebody and we'll just keep passing it around. Uh, so yeah, I'll, I'll pass the baton to, I think Kat is to the right of my screen. Oh, no, sorry. That's, uh, Fenwick. Sorry. Uh, it's Karen. Hi, Karen. Hi, I'm Karen Tepi chain. Um, I am general counsel at Ginkgo Bioworks. Um, we're a biotechnology company where we're building a platform to program cells like you can program computers. Um, and we also have a COVID-19 testing, um, uh, you know, business unit. Uh, so we recently completed, um, a business combination with a spac, so we're now a public company as of September 16th. So I think our board issues, um, that we're facing is really like, you know, how do we move from being this private company board where really, like a lot of the executive team had, um, ownership and, um, decision making authority over lots of the different kinds of transactions we do to how do you like, create like, um, solid governance, um, uh, a solid governance and a solid relationship with the board, um, to efficiently continue business as we have done it. So I'm another Karen, I wasn't sure which Karen you were calling out. So I'll, um, Hi Karen. I'm Karen Galley. I'm, um, general Counsel at Ika America Pharmaceutical. I am new to Tech gc. This is my first event. Um, Ika is a, um, pharmaceutical company. We're also in, um, the digital space. We have the first FDA, um, product approved, which is a chip in a pill, um, called Abilify, my site. Um, and we're looking at other digital opportunities. So that prompted me to join, um, challenge. So, so we're privately held. We just had our, our parent company in Japan just kicked off our 100th year celebration or hundredth anniversary year. So, you know, we're well established and not seeking funding. And so I think I'm in a different space, or I'm handling different issues than many of you on the call. But, um, one of the challenges that we have is because we're privately held and we're long standing, our board is very known to us. Um, and we are working on expanding that and going through the process of identifying potential candidates and, um, you know, looking more for different voices. Um, so I am gonna call Efrin. Good evening everyone. My name's Fen Garcia. I'm A-C-L-O-C-C-O here at Southwest Key Programs. Uh, before I tell you about what Southwest Key does, I actually started off as a patent litigator, uh, which is the reason I joined Tech tc. I wanna stay close to my roots. Uh, did patent litigation for 10 years before joining a smog company here in Austin, uh, software slash IT company, and did a, was their GC and their, uh, VP of community resources for five, six years. Uh, then had an interesting opportunity to join the current organization where I'm at. It's, uh, 8,000 strong, uh, organization, uh, employee strong organization that serves about 5,000 unaccompanied minors at any given time. Uh, so it's a, it's a very unique organization and, uh, like I said, I joined Tech DC too 'cause I do still enjoy the technical aspects of, of law. Uh, one of the biggest issues I was brought on board for many reasons, but the biggest is kind of transformed the organization, uh, from the inside out. And one of the biggest issues that I've encountered is a board that is, uh, some legacy board members had causes some heartburn. And so trying to gently ask them to, Hey, you might wanna look somewhere else. And so I'd be interested to hear people's thoughts on how to transform a board, uh, when board members may be reticent to leave. All right. Who are you calling on next? Uh, Dustin Carlton. Hey, how's everybody doing? Uh, as he mentioned Dustin Carlton. I'm from Bellhop. I'm the VP of Legal and Compliance. I've been at the company for about three years. I'm in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Um, one of the reasons why I'm here at this, um, dinner seminar, um, is I don't actually have a corporate background. I was, uh, labor and employment, uh, prior to going in-house. And, um, so I'm always feeling like I'm ill-equipped, uh, to some extent, um, in the boardroom. So I think it's just helpful to surround myself as much education as possible on, on, uh, board matters. And one of the, well, there's a lot of issues, of course, running around, um, the company. But, um, you know, next year we'll be seeking some additional funding and I'm, I'm looking for additional ways just to better, um, equip the, the company going into our, our next fundraise. Um, so both with respect to the board and with respect to the just general company matters. And I'll call on, uh, Robin. No, I think you went, didn't you? No, I haven't said any Yet. Okay. I didn't have your name written down. I was like, wait. That's okay. That's alright. Um, I'm general counsel for a company called Token X and we tokenize sensitive data. So, um, structured and semi-structured. Um, it could be, um, bank account numbers, social security numbers, phone numbers, credit card numbers, um, started out, um, as a PCI compliance solution, but it's gotten broader than that. And in our company, we're a, you know, compared to you guys with 8,000 employees, we're a very small tech company, but right in the middle of due diligence for a round of funding. And so, um, like Dustin said, I don't have a heavy corporate governance background and exposure. I have a heavy tech contracting, et cetera, et cetera, liaison with technical people background, and our board, um, I suspect it's about to change with another round of funding. And, um, it's one of those situations where I haven't had any exposure to our board, but they know that, uh, our leadership team knows that I would like that. And so I'm kind of preparing for the day that all of a sudden they flip the switch on and say, oh, okay, well now how about you come over here. Our former general counsel is a shareholder and he is on the board. So, um, there's, and he's been there from day one, so, um, that's why I am not involved in the board at this time. And let's see. And who hasn't gone yet? Um, how about Renee Hunter? I was getting nervous I was gonna be the last picked, uh, it felt like I was back in kickball in elementary school. Uh, so Renee Hunter with Notarize, uh, we provide remote online notarization services, uh, in addition to identity proofing services, uh, as well as active software as a service for companies who wanna bring their own notaries on the platform and provide their own remote noter services. So, um, not as streamlined as initially thought. I joined notarized from the Quicken Loans family of companies. I have been part of every, uh, the passing of every single remote notarization law except for Virginia in 2011. Um, so since 2016 have been working with legislators and regulators and, uh, setting forth new legislation. That being said, I say that because that is where I, whether I should admit that's my area of expertise or not, that's my area of expertise. Um, working with a board, even though I was general counsel at my past company, we were privately held and it was a very different scenario at the time. So wanting to learn more about how to work better with the board, and quite honestly, how do you kick some, some of the extra observers and like visitors off the board when they just keep showing up to the meeting and do it politely. Like, if you only have one observer seat, you should only bring one person, not three. So I love to hear how some of you have handled that in the past, and maybe it's just as blunt as you can't all come. This is a not a 17 person meeting. I'm next. Um, David Morris, did you speak yet? No, not yet. Uh, hey, uh, David Morris, general Counsel for Vivid Seats. Vivid Seats is an online ticketing marketplace for live sports concert and event tickets. And we are in the midst of going public over the next couple of weeks through a SPAC process. Just had our S four declared effective. So we're just a couple weeks behind, uh, Karen, where? Karen, Karen TI should say. Um, so my background is kind of corporate transactional, but not on the governance side. So for me, coming into a new public company board, putting all of our governance in place, and I came in kind of halfway through the SPAC process, trying to learn as much as I can about setting the right standards, uh, and processes upfront, since I have a chance to do this from scratch, as most of our private company board is not part of the public company board going forward. Uh, let's see, who else has not gone yet? How about Steven, have you gone yet? No, I have not. Thank you. Uh, my name is Steven Quinlan. I'm head of legal for Boston Gene Corporation. Uh, what we do is we own and use proprietary software, um, to analyze sequencing data for, um, tissue specimens of cancer for, to assist oncologists and treatment decisions. Um, and so we're a relatively small company. The board is just three members right now, one investor who we brought on as part of our Series A financing, um, and essentially, um, other, uh, founders of the company. Um, but we will be seeking investment soon. And so one of the major hurdles that, you know, we'll be facing in the near future is how to really professionalize, um, and I guess level up the board, uh, for the purpose of the, um, new investors that will be brought in and the kind of oversight that we'll be anticipating. Um, so I guess I'll move on here. I has Rachel Goldwasser gone yet. Okay. I Haven't, let me just fum fumble for the mute button. Um, Um, I am the, uh, GC and VP for regulatory at Key Capture Energy. We're, um, a little different than some tech GC companies. We, um, build and then operate, um, big batteries on the electric grid and, um, we're privately held, um, and just announced a couple weeks ago that we are going to be acquired by a Korean conglomerate. Um, so we're gonna, we're in a similar place to some other folks, although we aren't gonna be public in that. I'm thinking through what our, um, manager's relationships will be and what kinds of approvals they're expecting to have and what's gonna, what is gonna change in terms of the processes that we followed. I joined the company almost two years ago and, um, the CEO and COO had a pretty well established relationship with their current investors. And so I've played a pretty light role in terms of making sure as an l you know, as an LLC with a small manage, you know, group of managers. Pretty limited role in terms of, um, guiding them, um, in corporate, um, structure and governance. But I think that in this next round of relationships, those items are gonna be much more important. So really interested in, in the conversation and hearing about people's experience. Um, Meredith, have you, have you introduced yourself? I don't think you have. No. Hi, I am Meredith Fuchs. I'm General Counsel Plaid. We're, uh, a financial services, um, technology infrastructure company. And, um, I'm interested in many of the topics people have raised. Um, I'd say probably one of the things I'm thinking about is kind of transitioning from a mainly investor, um, populated board to one that's, um, got independent, uh, directors and sort of the kind of reporting and expectations to, to kind of get the board to where they will, you know, they should be if we were a public company. But, um, many of these topics are very interesting, so thank you. Oh, I'm supposed to pick someone. Um, let's see. Diana, Diane, did you hear Her? Diana, that's me, yes. Hi everyone. I'm, I'm Diane ui. I'm general counsel of ezCater. ezCater is an online marketplace for ordering corporate catering. We're a private VC-backed company. Uh, board currently consists of eight members, a couple of founders, couple of independents and four investors as well as, uh, a couple of board observers where potentially, um, going public in a year or two. Nothing currently on the horizon, but, um, starting to think about that and trying to think about what we would wanna be doing from a, a board perspective in connection with that. I do have a, a, a general corporate background, uh, was previously at a company called care.com and took that company public in 2014, uh, and continued there for another five years as a public company. So, uh, I have experience, uh, with public company boards and what the requirements are, but thought a refresher would be, would be good. So, I'm sorry I joined late, so I don't know who has not gone yet. Just can anyone raise their hand if they haven't gone? I think it's rake an anshu, right? If I got pronunciations right and Sarah, Okay. Okay. I can go if no one will volunteer. Hey guys, I'm general counsel and corporate secretary for Aztec Industries Inc. Uh, we are a public company. We are sort of an old dumb company, uh, but trying to heavily invest in technology and, uh, sort of follow the adage, right? You are either a tech company, you are either turning into a tech company or being replaced by a tech company. So we are trying to not be replaced and hopefully turn into a tech company. Um, like I said, we've been a public company. We've actually been a public company for, um, I wanna say about 40 years. But, but therein lies a little bit of the rub. Um, our company has only had two CEOs before the current CEO and both of those CEOs were sort of the, one was the founder owner, the other was his son. So the board members sort of, I think if you look at, um, look at a lot of, you know, literature on boards, you know, um, and if you sort of did the, the cature of old school board, that would be our board. You can go and take a look at our website. Um, we are going through a transformation of our board, or the next three years we'll be transitioning six members, um, and working with Nam and gut chair to sort of, um, action the plan in place, help the CEO, um, we, the new board member candidates and so on and so forth. So that's sort of my role. Um, my background is, uh, sort of a little bit of mostly corporate, uh, started my career early on with public company m and a, then worked on private m and a, and then went, um, to, uh, to a Midwest based, uh, law firm doing both middle market m and a as well as corporate, um, corporate, um, uh, transactional work, um, commercial agreements and stuff like that. So that's what brought me, or those experiences sort of brought me here. Now, um, with that, I'll pass it on to if I got the pronunciation right. You did. Thank you. Um, hi, my name is Rika Rin. I am currently the general counsel of a Susu Financial. Um, a Susu Financial is a FinTech company that is, um, that is dedicated to using data to bridge the wealth, the racial wealth gap in America. One of our key products right now that we're really scaling up on is rent reporting, um, for tenants and multifamily properties. Um, we started off with like a B2C model. Now we're a B2B model really working with, um, property managers and owner operators to sign on their residents to report positive, um, rental payment history in order to, um, create credit scores so people are credit invisible and to boost credit scores for people who don't, um, who, who currently have fair to good credit. Right? Um, we're pretty small company. I'm the first general council. We just, um, earlier this summer closed our series a fin, um, finance, um, financing round, um, a funding round. We are, we just had our first board meeting. That was the first one I've ever, um, participated in as corporate secretary. Um, learning a lot, took meeting notes. That was fun. Um, so I think what I'm, really think what I'm considering as we, um, are as we start talking about, um, you know, later funding series is just looking at like the bylaws. And my challenge is trying to, you know, the board was, uh, initially comprised of the co uh, the co-founders and now we're getting investors on the board. And initially a lot of the powers are seated at the board level. And just, you know, having an understanding of how to like balance what's, like what we should, what we should go to a corporate, like to go to the executive level, right? Powers that should be seated to the executive sources, um, powers that should be seated to the board. So if any kind of insight into that would be extremely helpful. And last, but certainly not least, um, I hand it over to Sarah. Hi. Uh, if you see people walking around in the background, sorry about that center time over here. Uh, my name is Sarah Weatherhead. I'm the general counsel at Maven Clinic, and we are a family and, um, maternity health telehealth product, a platform, um, sold primarily through employers, but also, um, more recently through health plans. Um, and, um, I have to say that in listening to everyone's comments on their board questions, we are Series D by the way, we just closed our Series D this summer. Um, I have to say that in listening to people's comments on boards, I think one thing that, um, I was reminded of that I have questions about is this is the earliest stage company I've ever been with. Um, I've been with, you know, much, I've been with public companies in earlier phases of my career where I have some corporate experience, um, with disclosures and filings as well as, you know, some exposure to the board, but not a ton because I was not the general counsel at that time. So I've never been the general counsel, um, dealing with a public company board. So, um, I guess one of the things I, I wonder about is in doing our latest round, um, I learned that the choice of the investors was related to, um, the current, uh, board and CEO's kind of thoughts on who might be best as a director. Um, we were oversubscribed as in many, um, digital health situations. And I think, um, as happens as commonly happens, you know, the choosing the choice of which investors can sometimes be connected to what their presence on the board might mean. And so I'm interested in hearing from both Fenwick and colleagues as to what their experience has been in that arena. As well as, um, managing the board from a general counsel perspective, particularly if you come in, um, at any time, say post series A and there have already been board, you know, directors there for a while, have a relationship with the CEO and what that means for the GC in terms of influence with the board and what kind of independent relationship one can have with the board when the, the CEO, you know, is, is in charge and, and has had a longer relationship with those directors. So interested in hearing a bit about that as well. Thanks, Sarah. And then Joanna, I think we have, we have you on our list. Yes. Last but not least, Go next. Sorry. I'm the, uh, um, uh, CLO and SVP of NEO Systems, and we provide back office, um, solutions for government contractors, um, hosting cybersecurity, um, managed cybersecurity accounting services, um, human capital management, um, and financial planning and analysis, um, uh, for, for not just government contractors, but highly regulated, um, industries such as nonprofits and so forth. Um, and the challenge we're currently facing is we were just, we are recently acquired by, um, a private equity firm. And so our whole board has been replaced except for the founders. They remain on, but we have the investors on the board, um, now as well. And so this is a very timely, uh, session, uh, for, for our company. Awesome. Thank you. And do we have, have we done introductions for everyone? Craig, did we get you? No, you didn't. Sorry, I had to jump off. Uh, hi everyone. Craig Siegel. Uh, I am, uh, CLO at, uh, Hootsuite. Uh, I'm located in Toronto. Uh, Hootsuite is, uh, a social media management platform, so assists, uh, businesses with, uh, social marketing, social commerce, uh, 1200 employees. Um, our board is made up of, uh, essentially, uh, founder and, and, uh, investor, uh, nominees. Uh, we are looking at a, a bunch of different opportunities that, uh, could impact the, uh, the makeup of the board, essentially potentially looking to move to more of an independent board. Uh, about a year, year and a half ago, we moved from a founder, CEO, uh, who, uh, interest was, uh, not, uh, not that much into, uh, heavy governance. And we've moved into a, uh, essentially a professional CEO where governance is absolutely at the forefront. So it's a bit of a continuum in terms of, uh, strengthening our, uh, governance program. So, uh, looking forward to the conversation. Awesome. Well really appreciate everybody giving some context and background on where they are. I'll jump in with the first question, but folks, please plan to jump in and help me out 'cause no one wants to just hear my questions. Uh, one of the things that, that resonated with me in listening to everybody and their questions tonight is about the evolving role of a board of directors over the lifecycle of a company. If I think about my CEO, he talks about the board having a responsibility to deliver foresight, oversight, and insight. And, you know, different people can deliver different parts of that, perhaps. Certainly the role of the board changes when you're talking about an early stage startup company all the way through a public company. And so, Kat and Ellen, I'm curious as to how would you recommend folks like us think about the board and its role and how to interact with them most effectively based on those different stages of life? Yeah, I'll jump in. I mean, I, I think you start out as a, a newly formed company with a founder, two founders, they're on the board, and, and there's a first step which involves some level of giving up control, right? And that's a, that's a big moment. You take money from someone outside, um, your board immediately changes. It's not just your company anymore. You've gotta, um, even if it, even if they don't have control of the board, most things are done by consensus at that level. And you need to bring someone along with you, you need to report to them. So board meetings become professionalized. You're, um, you're preparing materials in advance, you're taking criticism and input. Um, I think some people alluded to the importance of who you recruit. And Julie, I liked your, your, um, I'm not sure I can repeat it, your foresight, oversight, and insight. Was it, um, that that's where I think foresight and insight are most important at that stage. Perhaps, um, you know, you a board member that is also an investor that can come in and has, has been there with other companies and can see, you know, what the, what the dials are for your company to help take it to the next level to prepare it for its next fundraising round to go to market, um, to, to penetrate customer bases that you haven't before. Um, I think the board at that stage is, is doing a lot more, um, senior experience, business advice and strategy advice than they are governance and oversight. You know, the governance and oversight happens from your, your, your contractual documents, your, um, the rules and, and the fact that there's no more money coming if, if you don't do, do your job right and please your investors along the way. Um, oftentimes at that stage, a board will have a, a, an empty seat for an independent director. You know, I often see this kind of board of five, two founders, two um, two investors, and a fifth player to be named later that's gonna be an independent director. You know, I think that that independent director can be worth their weight in gold if they are really a contributor. So, um, companies often wait a long time to find them. You gotta pay them usually, um, if you want 'em to, to do good work. Um, if you move too quickly and get the wrong person, I think you can, you can pay for something that doesn't add value or worse. You can, you can, you can pay for a director that really is, you know, closely tied to your investors and isn't truly independent. Um, but when you find that, um, industry expert, um, that is truly independent from you and independent from your investors, um, the value that they bring when there's a real problem, um, is, is immense, right? I mean, um, when things are going well up into the right, what the board votes are, doesn't matter when there's conflict and there's disagreement or there's gonna be recapitalizations, restructurings, layoffs, whatever it might be, executive changes. Um, having a steady hand that is independent from purely investor financial incentives and purely management compensation incentives, but can help you think through that and lead through it is, is really valuable. Um, so I think searching for, for someone at that stage to fill that role, um, can be important. Your board will only grow from there. So I heard a couple of you talk about, you know, how do I, how do I get rid of board members? Um, it's hard, right? So I do think caution as you grow your board is important. 'cause it's kind of a one way ratchet in a way. Um, you know, there comes a time often when those two founder seats are too many and the boardroom's getting crowded, and maybe that second founder is, you know, is likely is not. The CEO is a, an exec that reports to the CEO and it may be less appropriate at some stage for that person to be in all of the board discussions. Um, and, you know, there comes a time when that discussion needs to happen of we're gonna go to a, a board with one, you know, common seat, one founder seed. And you know, that's where two partners that have gone into business together, um, and or, you know, that independent director that I talked about in the previous chapter that you've recruited can have that conversation with the person about stepping back and being able to focus on, um, the management. And oftentimes it's a CTO or something. So product delivery, um, uh, kind of, um, skill sets and time devotion that they need. Um, and then you start to, to attach observers and additional investors and your board grows. And, um, I, I see companies make the mistake of being too generous with either observation rights that are contractual or worse with just inviting people to the board meeting that don't have observation rights as if it's theater. Um, I think you're doing it wrong if you're treating your board meeting as theater, uh, whether for the rest of your management team or for, you know, um, others that come along with your investors, um, you know, for the board to have an effective discussion for them to disagree with one another, um, to disagree with management and provide feedback, um, you not, not conflict, I'm not saying that in a negative way, but to have a healthy exchange and a dialogue that hopefully leads to a better answer. I think a more intimate environment is important. And so I would be very cautious about expanding the boardroom too much. It happens, you know, people don't wanna have that conversation and there can be a cultural impact of who's getting disinvited from the board meetings. That's real. Um, but I, you know, I do think, I, I forget who, who commented early. Maybe you just need to go have the direct conversation, Renee. Yeah, I think you do. Um, I think the best way to, to do that though is to start to have a dialogue about what the, the goals of the institution and the board meeting are first, um, make sure people have a common understanding of that. And that provides context for, you know, that next discussion about, you know, we, we we're gonna reduce this so that it's, um, it's not a fishbowl, it's a dialogue. And and it's not just you by the way. It's, you know, for other people that are gonna not be invited to the next meeting, maybe it's a little easier these days than Zoom. Maybe that's one of the advantages. You can just not provide the Zoom code to certain people. I don't know. Um, it's a little harder if they just can stumble into the boardroom, I guess. Um, but if they don't know when it is or what the meeting code is that maybe you don't have to have that direct conversation. I still think it's a good idea. Um, and then One, one funny tidbit around that one, just for Zoom Entertainment was that we had a a, a science update meeting before our board meeting last summer. We had a bunch of observers. It was pre IPO, and the big request we got was, can you record it and send it to us? Yeah, sure. We're gonna give an update on all of our key science and progress. We'll just record that and send it to you. Yeah. And it's just a great example of, of people not really thinking through why that would be a bad idea. And my chairman was like, oh, wait, we can do that. And I was like, no, this isn't a, it's not a show, to your point, this is not a movie, right? We need to be really smart about the information flow. And I think that's part of the process, right? You start in these early stage companies and everyone's kind of clubby decisions get made kind of by consensus. Paperwork is kind of secondary. Record keeping is kind of sloppy. And then all of a sudden you are on this line of sight down the road eventually to either an acquisition or an IPO, and you've gotta start to professionalize. And, and I think that's part of what a lot of the folks in this group work on. How do you get in front of the board and put yourself in a position to just be a facilitator of not just good decision making, but good process. And I think that's what a lot of us are thinking about in our jobs. Sarah, I see your comment to Chad. That was a joke. I'm sorry. Yes, I agree. Not just pro, just not providing the Zoom Links not the right answer. Sorry. I'm sorry about that. I did have to step away to help with dinner and I like wasn't watching you. So I may have not on the context, but yes, I agree. Getting them off is very difficult. Yeah. Or getting them off calls. Yeah, I think that's right, Julie. I think, um, you know, the who, who's on your board matters here. And for, for you as general counsels, if you can find an ally on the board to that end, I, I think that's immensely valuable to you. So if there's a, you know, a chairman, chair, chair person, um, that is senior and seasoned and cares about these things, that's great, right? You can go to them, you can talk to them about how do we work together to, to do this. If you're fighting, you know, a board that wants to cut to the chase and doesn't wanna work on these things and, you know, maybe A-A-C-E-O or a management team that isn't as focused on it, that can be a hard road to hoe. Um, and, and then I think you gotta spend a lot more time trying to demonstrate the value of it and the importance of it. And, you know, I, I find it hard. I know you all find it hard because I think a lot of the times you've got to, you've gotta go to sort of horror stories. And this is what happens when things go badly and don't let this be you. And, you know, I never like to have to persuade that way because I think it's easy for people to, you know, distance themselves from that and believe it's not gonna be them. But, you know, I've seen the movie, I've seen how it ends that way. It ends that way for many companies. Um, you know, and one way or another turning negative. And, and you want to have had the right governance along the way to, before you get to that point. So one of the other questions that we got at the outset was sort of around how to manage getting somebody off the board. And, and I know Alan and Kat, you've guys got some war stories around this. Um, before I, I direct you guys to sort of jump into the topic. One thing I'll, I'll share just for again, entertainment value, you know, we had a director at one of my prior employee employers who, um, was known to show up and then promptly fall asleep at the meeting, had been an employee of the company and a prior executive was on as our chairman, um, but often was the least useful person in the room. And sort of no way to move that person out with any, you know, ease, especially in the context of it being a public company where, you know, that would be very visible. And so I'm curious as to how you think about, right, if you're in the private company stage and you're going for a next round of financing, that's often an inflection point where you can sort of group together with some directors and talk about who should stay and who should go. But are there other strategies that you would recommend for thinking through and, and, and how do you see the GCs role in that? Yeah, I, you know, I've seen it, um, I've seen it go poorly and I've seen it go well. I think to your, uh, illusion, Julie, about the private company context. One of the harder situations is when it's a VC from a prior round that has a contractual right to that board seat. And you've, you've not only gotta ask the the person to step down, um, but you've gotta ask the VC to, to give up their right. There is a middle ground there that I see sort of work, which is to allow them to keep their contractual right and appoint, you know, an independent to their seat that you agree on. I don't love that solution. 'cause I think it, it compromises that incoming director's ability to truly feel independent if they are, you know, at the, at the behest of contractually, at the behest of a, of a particular investor. Um, even if that investor is saying, I'm not gonna exercise that, right? But that can be a bridge too, right? That can be a way to allow the VC to save face with their peers and not having to give up their rights while getting the person that you want in the door. And, you know, maybe nine months down the road that changes. Um, I do think that there's a, you know, a hard conversation that has to be had there. And usually it's the CEO that's, that's having it. Um, it's another situation where I think having an ally on the board, you know, um, can, can be valuable because it, it's personal and, and at one level you're telling, um, that director that you want off for whatever reason, that you don't find their contributions as valuable as the others. And that may be who their fund is and what connections they have. That may be their actual level of participation and engagement. Um, you know, I guess it's easier if they are openly disengaged or not attending or those sorts of things, but it's often more subtle than that. And so, you know, the, the worst situations I've seen that discussion led to a, you know, a conflict between the CEO and the director asked to leave that spilled out into, you know, the boardroom and was a public conflict and, and people were left feeling, uh, feeling badly about it. At the end of the day. I, I think the best situations I've seen, actually, it's a public company context, but I'm not sure it doesn't translate, were situations where there was a chair who himself ultimately needed to step aside in favor of new blood and, uh, open the dialogue, you know, a quarter in advance with the board about what the objectives are and how, you know, we've got a board that is here and we want to get it to here for these reasons. Whether it's diversity, bringing in more independence, um, bringing in more audit committee expertise, bringing in more operational skill sets to mentor the CEO. Um, we need to achieve all those objectives. And, you know, that's gonna involve some transitioning of board members. I, I'd like to hear from each of you what your, you know, continued interest level is in participating, but I'm gonna be talking to you about that dialogue and how we, how we order it. And I, I think trying to get people focused on why you're doing this in a way that is not personal to them and what, why it's good for the company is good table setting and just framing it and then building a plan where the succession that needs to happen is staged over time. So, you know, maybe one seed is surrendered every year, and that's known in advance. You know, we're gonna move out our series A director next year, and we're gonna replace them with, um, an independent diverse board member. And then in the second year, as we're a year away from IPO, we're gonna move out our series B board member and we're gonna replace 'em with an audit committee chair. Um, I think also having a plan, um, you know, can, can let the other directors participate in the plan, and it doesn't feel like that first person that got tapped is the one that's getting picked on. Yeah, I would, I would just reiterate that the, um, for a lot of you, you are later stage private companies and, uh, the preparation for going public needs to happen far earlier than an org meeting. Um, getting, getting a public company ready board needs to happen, you know, at least sometimes like 18 months, two years before you're gonna go out. Um, in particular, just because these days it's not just finding an audit committee financial expert and finding folks who can read financial statements. Um, if any of you have companies that are headquartered in California, you have to comply with the, you know, the California laws, uh, with respect to having, you know, women being on your board and underrepresented minorities on your board. Um, and for anyone who is planning to list on nasdaq, NASDAQ just came out with their rules, right? So your board, uh, within a year of listing would have to have a, a woman and an underrepresented minority, uh, on the board. And so also with the increased focus from like ISS, glass Lewis and every single major fund from Fidelity to State Street, to, you know, BlackRock, they all have governance guidelines now and, uh, diversity, uh, and, and, and focus on, you know, having effective boards is really, really important. So I think to Alan's point, like coming up with a strategy far earlier than actually being public about what is my board, you know, here to do and actually putting together like a rubric for what I want out of it, and, you know, coming up with actual competency matrices and who's checking kind of, uh, you know, what boxes, and it's not just from a, you know, this is a, a diverse candidate, but you know, someone who has operational background, someone who has experience scaling my particular type of business, um, you know, someone who has experience on doing, you know, extensive m and a, if that's a big part of your, your strategy, um, making sure that you're kind of filling those gaps and to Alan's point, planning how you're gonna fill those and starting a conversation early with, uh, you know, with your existing board members about how we're gonna reach those goals and transition to it. So it's a smooth glide into becoming a public company as opposed to this being like a slap dash rush, right? Like at an org meeting where you're frantically competing for candidates because, um, as I'm sure many of you are aware right now that the market for finding, um, independent board members, let alone people who can, uh, you know, folks who are women, folks who are underrepresented minorities, it is, it's very, very competitive right now. Um, and if you have to also be filling audit, you know, just audit competency, it's just, it's, it's a very competitive market. So starting the dialogue a lot earlier than you'd think can be actually a mechanism for you to help maneuver, uh, maneuver your board in the direction of going more independent, um, uh, you know, for the, for the long term. Can I, can I push on that one for a second? I think that probably depends on what, um, what your vertical is, what your market is. I think you, you raised some really good points. I mean, we're going public very shortly. We have a board that is, uh, five of the nine are not white men, I put it that way. Mm-hmm. That way. Um, and it hits all our diversity requirements and then maybe harder for some, I think in other industries, if you're not an e-commerce in e-commerce, I think that's easier. The reality is like, I went through this a TripAdvisor a long time ago too before vivid seats and like, you're just trying to get through day-to-day and build your business, right? Like the reality is two years ahead of time. Like that's in your mind, right? That's your things you're talking about if you're there at the time. But a lot of us are stepping into the role maybe less than two years before you're going public. So there is some, you know, there's a lot of that, panic is not the right word. There's a lot of stuff you have to do very quickly. I think this is sort of one of them, and obviously you wanna be thinking about advance, but I would push on the fact that you need two years for that. I don't think that's necessarily, I think it's great if you can, but I think the reality of where we live in is you probably aren't gonna get that for some of us. Yeah. And Dan, I think some of us are gonna inherit that situation and hope our outside council's been helping them manage through some of that on the, on the front end, because you're right, we, we often don't get there until later. I do think that having gone through two, my last two companies went public with me joining sort of midstream in one and just prior for the other. And I can certainly tell you that the board's sense of, you know, the urgency around this was not as high as it probably ought to have been, at least in one of those two companies. And you're then playing catch up, right? You're, you're sort of being like, well, we'll get questionnaires and we'll see who qualifies. Like that's not a great place to be. So it, it's definitely a challenge. I do think that Kat's point though about the competition is exceedingly important, right? You know, I don't know how many folks in this group have some form of a board search, either active or thinking about it or sort of socializing it, but finding the right fit people for these roles is really hard. And if you also are trying to check the boxes on some of these important diversity rules, which are becoming effective for most of us in the next year or two, it's gonna be really challenging. And, and I think it's great that we're pushing companies to move in this direction, but we're all competing for the same talent. Yeah. I, I would just jump, uh, I was gonna just So along, along the same lines of what other people are saying, I think, I think it's great to do it as far advance as you can. My company, we're probably there, we're starting to think about this. What I found, what I'm finding is that, you know, Alan, you said maybe getting a someone who has a, a contractual right off the board. I've found that to be not just at this company, but other companies, very hard for them to say, okay, I'm gonna give up my contractual, right. You don't really know when a company's gonna go public. Even if they think they're gonna go public, you don't know when COVID is gonna hit or something else is gonna hit. And, um, I found them, you know, not, not very open to that until they know that you're going public. Uh, and similarly you're talking about all the talent. I mean the, the, the competition for, uh, the talent, the IPO talent, the, the directors, they have a lot of other opportunities out there, and I'm not, I don't know that they're interested two years before maybe some companies, maybe there's a few companies they'd be interested in going to two years ahead of time in anticipation of it being, you know, being public. But there's only so many boards that they can really be on. So I think they're pretty particular and they, they wanna know a lot of them anyway, wanna know that this is more of a sure thing before they're, before they're, uh, committing to me. What seems to be the best thing to try to do is to start building those relationships, have, have the conversations, like you said, have conversations with the directors. This is what we want our board to look like, have conversations, start having conversations with potential board members and saying, look, if we're getting closer, you know, we'd really be interested in you. And then I don't know if you have to wait till, till you have your IPO kickoff meeting, but sometimes sooner than that, sometime closer to that, you know, nine months out when you're potentially even hiring your public company, CFO when you're, you know, those types of things. Now it's really getting into going, I think is is an easier time to make those transitions. That's my thoughts. Yeah, I think that's all true, Diane. I think a lot, a lot in a lot of cases it depends, right? There's sort of two themes going on in the world as I see it. There's one that's been there a little longer, which is companies we're taking longer and longer to go public and they were raising more and more money as private companies. And so you have these, you know, uh, unicorns, right? That, um, are raising larger and larger rounds on bigger and bigger valuations and adding more VCs to the mix. They can't just keep accumulating, you know, board members until they're 14 or 15, right? In that context, when you're asking your early stage investors that, you know, their strategy is not to keep up with growth stage investors, they don't have the, the balance sheets to, to do their pro rata share of those deals, you start to have it made more sense and be easier to, you know, replace an early one with a later one maybe. So that's, that may be a, a, a situation where you would find the contractual give up a little easier. The the other wave though is the SPAC wave, you know, and we have companies going public much earlier than they used to before. They've spent a long time planning, preparing, developing all the infrastructure, you know, working on, you know, um, SOX compliance. And I, I think it's gonna be interesting to see, um, you know, how that all turns out. Uh, it is gonna be a bit of an experiment and there are companies that have a very high level of sophistication and development at the time that they do it. And I, I trust that's all of you that are doing your SPACs right now. There are some that I've seen that it's, it's less so, and it's gonna be a bigger leap of faith for them to get there. And, and they, they wind up with a very short period of time in order to build all the infrastructure that you need to be a public company. I, I think where you don't want to be is to find yourself public and only focused on building your business. When you're in a fishbowl. The, the regulators, the investors, institutional investors are looking at you, uh, as a public company. They, they aren't gonna discern the fact that, um, you didn't have as much time to get ready as others and or aren't gonna care. Um, so you gotta catch up if you know if that's where you're gonna be. Hey, Alan and Kat, I have one question. Kat. You mentioned, you know, these, uh, board qualification and competency reviews, you know, qualification tables that public companies put out in proxies. Um, here's sort of looking for some practical guidance from anybody in this group. You send out, you know, a competency matrix, qualification matrix to the board, and people will sort of cross out as their competencies, all sorts of boxes, right? Um, They'll say they're excellent at everything except at anything that gets 'em stuck on the audit committee. Oh, there you, there you go. Right? Look, someone who's doing middle market deals is not gonna be the right person for somebody who's a public company looking for transformational deals, right? Someone who has done a lot of, and you all should not take anything about our board as a result of this, this, these comments, but just think about it, right? Someone who's dealt with construction industry, all of his or her life is not going to be the person who's going to be able to say, yeah, pay 10 times the revenue of this tech company because here's why it makes sense or doesn't, right? Any thoughts, practical pointers on how you interact with those kinds of situations? In my mind, right? Where I'm trying to lead this is create a pathway of the two, three years down the road where people who are not suited for those seats eventually reach the conclusion that, Hey, I've had a great run. Let me put this in better hands here, if you may. And, you know, and, and we'll, we'll invite you for dinners and drinks and whatnot, but boardroom is intended for that foresight and insight rule here, right? Any thoughts anybody can share on this group that might be practical pointers would be helpful. I can jump in, but we can see if the, the group has crowdsourced ideas. Yeah. So, you know, I, I think one, let's be honest, most of the time it is A-A-C-E-O or a founder that is building, you know, their board, particularly at these stages. And the relationship that he or she has with, um, those members that have been recruited is important to this. And so I, I'm not sure you rely on self-reporting for each director to, to say what their skills are and if they scale to the next level. I think, um, you know, I think the, the people tasked with recruiting the board or the ones that have to make their own assessment of that and about what the company needs, oftentimes that's a CEO. But one thing that's occurred to me in this conversation that um, uh, I I think is an interesting thought is, is there value in, in, in paneling a nominating corporate governance committee at an earlier stage? It's not something that's required until you're a public company. I tend to not be a fan of, I certainly don't want people building bureaucracy or building committees and structure that you're not going to use. Um, however, on that, the other side of that coin is when you impanel something like a committee and give it a charter, it tends to do things. And, you know, that may be a way, if you have the right people to, um, to join it and lead it to, to create some leadership and, and activism around thinking about this issue and being proactive in terms of how to shape the board in conjunction with the CEO's needs. You know, it's interesting. We did a, an exercise at one of my companies where we did that competency chart and we asked directors to fill it out and we debated having the nominating corporate governance committee fill it out for the whole board, and ultimately we're pushed to have each director self-report, which was really an interesting lesson in who's an easy grader and who's a hard grader. Um, ultimately though, we used that as an exercise to try to identify a phenotype for a candidate search that we wanted to kick off that management was pushing for an additional director and wanted to get to an alignment on a profile. You know, it can be a helpful way to try to do it. And you can design that chart, right? You don't have to take a generic chart that you find from somebody. You can design the chart to match what you think is important in the skillset. And, you know, depending on the honesty and the self-awareness of your board, you can have a pretty good discussion around that. And to the point made earlier by Alan, like, you could have that at the, at a board meeting and you, you'd need a director to lead that typically with a little bit of humility, right? Somebody who can come in and say, I know I don't get a five in every one of these categories. There's certain areas as I bring strength in other areas where I defer to others, and that's a healthy dynamic. I think you can set it up and have that conversation, but identifying sort of where the gaps are can be a really important way as a first step to then saying, okay, how do we apply this to our board and say, do we have the right people? Where do we need to go over time? And you know, you, you often, if you sit in enough board meetings, right, you hear feedback about the CEO, you'll hear them talking. You'll say like, you know, you need mentorship in this area, and you're like looking around the board table and you're like, well, none of you have that skillset, so maybe that's a gap, right? So there are opportunities where you can do it, and I do think there's an important role that, that we play in this discussion, right? Even where the CEO might be the one to have the awkward conversation with the director, right? There's a conversation to be had with the CEO internally that says, here's where we are, right? Everything's a continuum. We're gonna try to get to this later stage in our life cycle. We need to look like this when we get there, how do we plan for it? How do we get ahead of it? And those have been some of the conversations I've had with my CEOs in, in the course of my career where I feel like I'm adding a lot of of value and where I can be a thought partner for him or for her to try and have those conversations and be proactive so that you're not sitting at the org meeting and going, oh, right, we need a financial expert. Who do we have? So our company was recently acquired by a private equity firm and they required the entire executive team to undergo disc assessment, um, tests. And we all thought that was kind of silly. Um, but once we got the results we were after, we were all horrified at our own results. We were encouraged to share them with each other and, and also we're trying to hire a new CFO. Um, and they were required to take the DISC assessment and some people were eliminated immediately because they didn't indicate the traits that were desirable for the particular role, you know, but it also shows there, there's lots of stuff like how to communicate with people and so forth, but you can also identify, do these people have the traits that are associated with the role of a board member that you are desiring? It's really interesting. I can do it. We just did a disc for our executive team last week. I did it for my legal team in July because I think it's a really great exercise to go through. I've done it, did it years ago at TripAdvisor a number of times. Um, we had the discussion about as we add board members in the future, would we do that? I think it's a useful tool. I would add, and, and this is kind of coming from our moderator, that like, don't use this as a hiring tool. Like, I think it's a dangerous thing. I mean, our, our executive team, I think like a lot of you, you'll find out if you've done it, is gonna over index towards the ds. I think that's sort of a natural, a natural thing in leadership, but just because you over index there doesn't mean you want, don't wanna hire an I for your CFO, for example, whatever it may be. I, I just think that's it. It's a tool, not something that should be used as a determinant. Um, but I, I don't think there's anything scary about it either. And I'm someone who's a convert. 'cause when I first heard these 10 years ago, my god, more HR process stuff, that's a waste of my time. And I acknowledged that I was wrong about it and I found it really helpful. But I also, it's a, I almost think it's a little dangerous to lean on it too much also. Sorry Julie, I didn't mean to interrupt. No, it's totally fine. So I wanna make sure we also have space for folks who have other topics they want us to go into. So if there're folks who have other directions they want this conversation to go, I wanna give a pause and let folks jump in with questions. All right. Well, while folks are thinking I'll, I'll take us in a slightly different direction. Um, Kat and Alan, how do you think about best interacting with your board, right? What are some of the best practices that you would recommend in terms of managing the board relationship and managing how the board gets information flow? Um, I'll, I'll throw a couple of thoughts that I have in, into the mix, but open to obviously others from around the room. You know, we, we think a lot about how do we deliver materials to the board that are secure, but also positioning well for discussion and for decision making at the meetings and having this balance between pre-reads and discussion at the meeting and, and not just reading slides to them. I don't think anyone at any company feels like they get it perfectly right. But I'm curious as to what you think are some best practices because for us, you know, I, I struggle with the fact that I'm not confident that a lot of folks do all the pre-reading, which is a really frustrating feeling, but a reality. And at the same time, you know, you don't wanna be reading slides and it's really disheartening to the leadership team if you feel like you put all this work into the materials and then you're sort of reading them to the, to the board members. Yeah, I I think you're right about, um, no one ever getting that right. I do a lot of board self-evaluations and I think it's commonly a topic from one end to the other for a complaint. Um, I do most commonly hear directors asking for more strategic discussion, more focused opportunity for dialogue and less reading of slides. And that's a common, um, common refrain I see in the chat folks saying, I, I'm not, I'm skeptical that people do the pre-read. I think you gotta count on 'em to do the pre-read. Um, and you gotta think about replacing 'em if they're not. But, um, the pre-read can be voluminous. I think, uh, having a common pattern so that people know where to look for updates on the information, but also really doing an executive summary or some way to highlight, you know, these are, these are the 10 things that jump out on the screen. They're not buried on page 80 that, you know, our, our CAC is going down or are we're having a churn problem or, you know, whatever it might be. Um, we're gonna call that to your attention so you see it. And by the way, these are the three questions that I want us to discuss and focus on at this board meeting. And so, you know, having that front and center, like the first page of the board package so that people can, um, can focus in on what the key data is they need to pick up and then go deeper and they can start thinking in advance about what the questions are. Um, and then just from the, the governance perspective, this is a little more boring than that topic, but, um, preor organizing, what is the approval agenda both from, you know, a list of items that need to be approved, but also actually drafting the resolutions in advance, you know, where there are blanks or decisions that need to be made, you know, leaving that decision tree. And clearly, I, I find these situations in board meetings where that isn't done from time to time. You come away as, as council trying to draft minutes and it's not totally clear that everybody did agree on the same thing. Um, getting it in front of them so that they're actually looking at a concrete, you know, resolution or program that they're passing and, and making sure that's written down I think can be valuable. And so I, I like to do a meeting with, um, inhouse council a week before a board meeting. We work together on going through the agenda items, getting the resolutions drafted, running to ground any open issues or problems, um, so that that's all prepackaged and ready to go and organized by the time the board package comes along. Yeah, I would, uh, so I think, uh, one point I think Meredith put in the chat was like the, uh, I think that's the Amazon style, right? Like Amazon starts every single meeting with like the first whatever, 10 or 15 minutes or for people to like literally sit quietly and read. Um, I, I kind of side a little bit with Alan in the sense of like, you know, you don't often have, you know, boards aren't meeting that frequently. Uh, it's usually four to six meetings a year. Um, and the expectation is that they would, um, that they would hopefully be doing a pre-read. But I think in order to ensure and set yourself up for success or to, um, you know, one is, uh, to I think Jolie's point, like putting together like an executive summary that's like pretty, you know, tight that's gonna hit on all of the major points is gonna be important. So if someone is short on time, they at least have a single source that is gonna have all of the material points that need to be conveyed to the board and potentially teed up for discussion in, in an executive summary. Um, followed up by, you know, like the more robust kind of PowerPoint that's gonna have all of the, you know, let's dive into the details. And then there's a completely separate much, much, much shorter deck that will just guide the discussion. Uh, and the, the talking points for the actual meeting itself, those shouldn't be the same deck. They need to be separate decks, which is the deep dive and then the actual presentation deck. Um, and then there's also just some nuts and bolts things too. Like I know a lot of folks are moving to actual board, um, platforms. So meaning making sure that your board members actually know how to access and use the platform, um, or if you're, you know, using Google Docs or whatever it is, just making sure that folks technologically can get a hold of the docs. That's, I think a kind of a bit of a complaint that I've seen from, from board members that they, you know, quote, I didn't know how to download it or I didn't know how to get the materials. It's a, it's a low bar thing, but um, just something that you should, you should be checking on. Um, and again, like also just making sure that you get the materials out with sufficient advanced notice. Um, you know, I definitely think for our, our smaller private companies, you know, board materials are often going out only like less than 24 hours in advance. Sometimes it's quite a bit of a scramble, but I think the expectation in particular as you, as you grow as a company is those materials need to be going out with, you know, needs to be more time. Um, so the board actually has time to, you know, review and digest it, not just 24 hours or 36 hours notice, um, for the materials. And by the way, this is all more important in Zoom land because, um, you know, you don't, you have people's attention for less time or you should, your meetings should probably be sorter and more focused while, you know, we're in these virtual worlds. Um, 'cause people get fatigued more, more quickly and it's harder to, um, have the, the, the triggers that come from, um, being able to lay eyes on people in person and and respond to conversation and, and human interaction. So I think focusing in the meeting on the key things that need to be taken away is, is ever more important in this world. But like there was a question there that I talked over, who is Meredith? Um, I, I just had a question about board portals, you know, like board document portals and like why or if people think that's really a valuable thing or not. I mean I know that many companies use them and once you get a lot of communications it's probably useful just 'cause it's all in one place. But I'm just curious if anyone has a view about that. Yeah, so Meredith, I I have a couple thoughts. I mean they're, in terms of which one to use, I think they're a bit fungible, but I actually like them for two particular reasons. One is the security of the information. So the ability to keep your important information behind some sort of secure system, not just email appeals to me, but I also think it's really valuable for folks in our seat in particular, right? It gives me a role where I get to step in and say, you know, we'll manage the portal, we'll manage the distribution material and everything goes to the board through that portal. It gives me a lot of, um, centralization of how information flows out and puts me in the middle of it, which I think is good from a governance perspective and also an information flow perspective. 'cause I know what's gonna be going in front of the board. So I, I think selfishly I like it for both those reasons. I don't know if other folks have different views. You, one thing you may wanna consider is there's some literature out there in recent case law, certainly in Delaware on when some of these things become discoverable and, uh, how to manage the litigation holes and things like that. Just making sure that, you know, the, the, the line between, uh, uh, what information should remain privileged is actually remaining privileged and all. And I think doing that from uh, portals is much easier than using their own personal emails or God forbid you actually provide them a company email address and, and then, you know, have to deal with that. Yeah, I I, I think actually that's a, that's a important, like, it seems like a small point, but I, I think there was recent case law that came out of where when you're emailing your board and they're using like not, you know, company email addresses, it's gonna jeopardize privilege. And so I think that's why using potentially a a, a system, like I saw many people mention Diligent, that's what a lot of my clients have used as well. Um, you know, using a system or if you're not gonna use the system actually creating like an alias for your board, you know, like if it's board at, um, you know, your company name.com or something like that, uh, to, to keep your privilege tight, um, and to make sure you don't have any accidental leakage. I ask a, We think as much that that's privileged from in a, in a board deck. Sorry, there Certain, there could be, we've certainly had things where we had derivative lawsuits or other things like that where we were getting advice or sharing advice. We would typically not put it in the slides. That's what I was say. I don't put anything I have like legal update is what I put in this slide. No, we've done that Diane, but we've also had to do resolutions in some cases and at least those could theoretically have something in it. Y yeah, no, or if you're just emailing out the materials, people then just start replying on the thread, right? And they just start saying things and you can't control necessarily what people reply back to you, right? So I think that's part of the concern. It shouldn't, it's not just the materials themselves, but it's the dialogue that could follow them. Um, that, that we also wanna be really mindful of. So I have a question. Do have a question? Yeah, I have a, well I have a question sort of like, piggybacking on all of this, which is like, and I think it's uh, Diane, it's sort of like what, touching on what you just said, but like when you do need to communicate those sensitive, like let's call 'em low lights, um, of the quarter or you know, whatever period to the board of directors, like how do people think about like, navigating that? Is it something that we should be documenting in a board deck board? Is it something that we should just be talking about with like the audit committee? Just what are, what's the, what are the thoughts on that? What else wanna go? And Karen, if you, if you're talking about, you know, the data of, you know, the results for the quarter, those, those are facts, right? Those are what they are. If you're talking about, I Mean I'm, I'm talking about like just issues like yeah, Oh we Had a, we had a quality issue like this past quarter and like here's the download of it. Yeah, I mean, I'm a big believer in thinking really strategically about what should be in writing and what should not be in writing to Diane's point. I, you know, I think there are a lot of times where you might put, you know, a, a topic for discussion but not put the detail or you might put, you know, just so you just lead that to an exec session and bring it up verbally if that makes the most sense. You know, it is important to think about record keeping and, and who's gonna have access. And especially if you have investors on your board who are used to pulling the deck down and sharing it with everybody at their firm, which is something to think about. You wanna be really mindful. 'cause you know, there, there may be loss of privilege along the way through that Yeah. Loss As well as with minutes, you know, I do, they should typically be topic level items, not details of who said what to whom. And you know, what the background is. 'cause um, you don't know where they're gonna come up again, whether with other employees internally or um, next investment round or an acquisition, oftentimes that's a due, that's a due diligence request these days. And you can push back, but you may not win that. One Of the other things on board portals is that you can use them for secure emails. So you can send materials and you can send an email, but have it go through a secure mechanism. So the content of the email doesn't even show up on their phone. They have to log in to see the email. Just something else to think about. Julie, has that been a challenge? So I, I'm watching diligent literally this week, you know, with board members, uh, some of whom are already on diligent for other boards, some of whom are not. And so I'm trying to balance how much we're using diligent versus how much accepting the reality of my CEO is going to email his board as well. Like how much is in the portal, obviously the materials for the board meetings, audit committee, et cetera, versus what's happening via email in terms of like general discussions to the board outside of the portal. So I'm kind of curious how people have found that, because I imagine there's probably some variance in that experience. Yeah, and I certainly push hard that everything should go through the portal and I don't win a hundred percent of the time. But, you know, the things that we tend to get pushback on are things like press releases. If we're giving them a press release right before it issues, they're like, well, it's gonna be public. I'm like, yeah, but it's not public yet. And I, I tend to fall back to Meredith's point about let's have the directors have one stop shopping for all of our content in one place. I have a four month old daughter and she's on my lap, so I apologize. Uh, but in addition to that, I would say that, you know, I think it can be challenging. It, it does go to quality control. You can leverage that argument sometimes. Data security is a big one I use to try and push for it. And I, and I do think the one-stop shopping makes it easier for directors. So they're not saying, wait, where is this thing? And the things that we end up at the outside the portal tend to be things like succession planning where it's super sensitive and they don't want everyone to have access to it. And maybe that got sent by the CEO separately. It's not my preference, but it's a fight that I might not win. Yeah, I I often see friction in the adoption process directors who are not that tech savvy complaining about it or who just wanna work a certain way. And, you know, I think there's that initial adoption curve that can, can be painful and it does generate complaints, but it, it has value and benefits to the company if you can get people over the hump and working that way. The other place that comes up a lot is airplanes. Um, you know, I, I want to be able to get on the plane to fly to the board meeting and I wanna, you know, be able to have access to it in paper so I can read it or, you know, on my download from my iPad or something not logging into a portal. And to the extent it's pushing people to that, that's one Gotcha. That I think we haven't seen the end of yet is airplane, um, airplane internet. Um, you know, I am sure you've seen some of the studies and news stories with reporters who've managed to pull just crazy things off of the wifi that are floating around the cabin. And so, I mean, really your directors should not be on an internet reading anything confidential on the plane. 'cause it's, it's not secure. Um, I had a crazy situation where a director FaceTimed into a board meeting from an airplane, um, that bad behavior in multiple ways, but, uh, another one to watch out for. So I was gonna ask a much more rudimentary question than the stuff you guys are all talking about. Okay. Um, so when I came into the company, there was no delegation of authority. There was no, like, there was just like, it was very, you know, early stage willy-nilly decision making. And I slowly sort of implemented what I would call like pretty minor controls, levels of controls. Like what's, where is there a playbook somewhere that I should be following to get from here to there? You know, I mean, I've looked on, you know, I've looked at, do I remember Rachel, that you're and all The tech GC sources, and honestly, it's hard to stomach paying a lawyer hundreds of dollars an hour to tell you what's like, mostly common sense stuff, right? But just figuring out how to get from here to there is a tough thing. Like you all are talking about portals for board members. Well, all of our board members are, you know, either the, the, the two co-founders or the investors, right? And those seats are just, are just appointed by those people. And so they're gonna get data daily communications from us. I can't control any of that, right? So we're in a really different place. And I, I've talked to a bunch of lawyers, lawyers that do other work for us, you know, at, at big law firms, what I would call fancy schmancy law firms. And their advice isn't particularly helpful because they're not used to dealing with a company of my size, um, or a stage. So what's the, you know, what's the playbook in, in to get from here to there, right? Say there's a plan to IPO in the next three to five years to get from here to there and to train people in those decision making processes so when they get there, they're ready. Yeah. I, I think it's incremental change, right? I mean, so I do see I'm maybe guilty of being part of a fancy schmancy law firm. Um, I, a lot of my clients are pure startups. They evolve exactly the way you're describing. And you know, I, I don't think you can, you can jump in at a series A round with one angel investor or you know, super angel or something and, and try and establish public company controls and procedures. But I think you want to see, um, the, the board governance process making progress along the way, right? So pick your battles, um, what's important, where, where, where is my, where are my biggest risks or where are decisions getting made that are outside of the eye shot of the board and that's gonna create a problem. And how do I start to channel that into board channels, um, and accept the fact that it's, you know, you can't boil the ocean and you can't change it overnight. Um, if I remember right Rachel, you have a, an acquirer who's coming in and they're gonna be establishing their own controls and procedures so that that may happen faster than, um, my, my guess is that there's gonna be a pretty clear, you know, edict from corporate about, you know, what the rules are now. Um, so that may be out, out of your hands in a way. Um, but I, but I think in general, as you evolve, you, it can't be a sudden last minute thing that, you know, you've, um, you've grown all the way from zero to 60 miles an hour without doing it and then suddenly, you know, turn it on. So I, I think you just make progress along the way. I mean, part of the things I'm thinking about is wanting to know the answers before I'm told what the answers are. Yeah. And I think that's a big piece of it, Rachel. Right? Right. We might wanna set up a structure that you're comfortable with as a team about what would go to the board Before, before we're told by our new investors, here's what we want and this is the structure we wanted in, but the upshot of that is I have to make it up and like it's ama and I don't know if anyone here has come across resources that are useful in that scenario, but like, I haven't done it before. I'm, this is a, my first time in this role, so I haven't done it before. Yeah. Put, put the question out to the group because there are good resources on this. We've always done it with a blend of sort of dollar limits, a question about whether authority is limited to subject matter area or not. Yeah. And then certain categories of things that have to go to the board. And that list is helpful both for somebody like you or me in the seat to know what things we have to take to the board. But it's also a way of giving the board kind of comfort of like, look, these are the big things you are gonna get to weigh in on them and these other things are gonna be operational or they're within budget or things like that. We're gonna be able to execute without necessarily coming back to you. And those tend to be easy to pick out because they're the things that would require board approval anyway, like putting in place a loan facility of a certain size, right? You're gonna go to the board doing an acquisition of a certain size, like those kinds of things. Like, that's like the sleeve. I'm happy to give that to the board, you know, a commercial agreement that's 4 million in spend, but it's in budget, you know, I don't think you should have to go to board for that. Yeah. One, this is not oriented the way you're asking, but one resource that comes to mind is the NVCA forms. You go to nvca.org, there's a, a model investor rights agreement in there that would have, you know, a whole list of things that VC directors think are important that they go to the board. And you could use that as a list to go through and decide whether you also do. Um, but that might give you sort of, you know, the, the catchall of possibilities. Yeah. Corporation, we have a delegation of authority and we have those sorts of things. It's, it's in part just like setting that culture around what gets shared and what doesn't. And sometimes in some categories we overshare probably, and in other categories we unders share, right. And it's trying to figure out how to, how to, how to guide that in the right direction. Mm-hmm. Um, which is, is tough without, you know, there's like most things that we, we, we do, we have rules, right? And this is a very, it's very amorphous. Mm-hmm. Well this has been a really helpful conversation and I think Tara would tell us that we're running up in time, um, and probably should wrap up. So I'll turn it back to you, Tara. Yes. I, um, just wanna reiterate thank you everyone for joining. Um, I put this code for CLE in the chat. I'll also be following a post event. There are a couple articles that were shared, so we'll include those as well. Uh, but thank you to Jolie for being our tech GC host for the evening, and thank you to Alan and Kat from Fenwick for sponsoring this event. Um, their contact information will also be included in the post event email. Um, and this was a great conversation. Hopefully you all, uh, found it very valuable and, um, thanks for your time tonight. Thanks everyone. Thanks everyone. Enjoyed meeting with you.
